311 DIRECTOR
Class Code:       9206
Open Date:  04-18-14
ANNUAL SALARY 

$125,175 to $155,514 

DUTIES

A 311 Director is responsible for the successful operation and expansion of the 311 Call Center in the Information Technology Agency (ITA) which answers call from constituents regarding Citywide services provided by City departments; works to ensure the efficient and effective resolution of any issues that may arise; plans, directs, hires, coaches, and coordinates a large staff of professional, technical and clerical employees engaged in the implementation, administration, and operations of the City's 311 Call Center; applies sound supervisor principles and techniques in building and maintaining and effective work force; fulfills equal opportunity responsibilities; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS

1. One year of full-time paid experience as a Senior Management Analyst with the City of Los Angeles or in a class which is at least at the level which provides professional experience in supervisory or managerial work relating to a call center with at least 50 call agents or a call center that receives at least one million calls annually; or
2. A Bachelor's degree from a recognized college or university and four years of full-time paid experience in a call center environment with at least 50 call agents or a call center that receives at least one million calls annually, two years of which must be supervising staff working at such a call center; or
3. Eight years of full-time paid experience in a call center environment with at least 50 call agents or call center that receives at least one million calls annually, two years of which must be supervising staff working at such a call center.

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete a 311 Director Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing.  The 311 Director Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Qualifications Questions section of the City application.  Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Call center experience related to sales and telemarketing is excluded.
4. Customer Relations Management (CRM) systems expertise, including implementation, integration, and knowledge base creation is highly desired. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted online. When you are viewing the online job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. Online job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, an expert review committee may be assembled to evaluate each candidate's qualifications for the position of 311 Director. In this evaluation, the expert review committee will assess each applicant's training and experience based upon the information in the applicant's City employment application and the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered by the expert review committee as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a 311 Director, based solely on the information presented to the committee, will be invited to participate in the interview. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 1, 2014.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from April 18, 2014 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight: Interview . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience and background as they provide the knowledge of: principles, practices, and techniques of managing a large scale call center; City budgetary, administrative, and legislative rules and regulations; safety principles and practices; telephony, voice recording, Interactive Voice Response (IVR), and Customer Relations Management (CRM) systems; mobile application, e-mail, and social media; call center optimization strategies such as process re-engineering, multi-channel strategy, call center consolidation, and technology solution investigation; training techniques, including curriculum development; principles and practices of supervision, including, directing, assigning, motivating, mentoring, training, counseling, disciplining, commending, and evaluating the work of subordinates; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity; and ability to manage the daily operations and coordinate large scale, City-wide projects of a call center; hire, direct, evaluate, and coordinate the work of a large group of professional, technical, and clerical employees; prepare and present effective oral and written reports and recommendations; communicate effectively in public and to groups; deal tactfully and effectively with a variety of individuals; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of JULY 7, 2014 through JULY 18, 2014.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
3. Promotional candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of those candidates.  
4. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit as indicated above, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates. 
7. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
8. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
9. The successful candidate may be required to complete a medical examination prior to appointment.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON 
AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 



Class Code 9206 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .04-18-14

