ADVANCE PRACTICE PROVIDER CORRECTIONAL CARE
                                           
	Class Code:       2325
Open Date:  02-08-08
REVISED:    11-12-14

ANNUAL SALARY

$78,487 to $97,530 and $84,459 to $104,922

A 5.5% bonus may be paid upon proof of certification by a recognized national professional organization in a nurse practitioner specialty that is relevant and applicable to the duties performed.  Some positions require night work, for which a 5.5% bonus is paid.

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Advance Practice Provider Correctional Care is responsible for obtaining medical histories, performing physical examinations, ordering and interpreting diagnostic tests, assessing medical conditions, providing medical care and treatment, and performing related duties as required under standardized procedures and/or protocols established by the department in one of the City's correctional care facilities.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Must be licensed as a: 
a. Registered Nurse and certified as a Nurse Practitioner by the California Board of Registered Nursing with documentation of education and training as a Nurse Practitioner in family practice, adult, or emergency medicine, and possess a current license, Furnishing Number, and a Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) registration number which provides the ability to provide drug/medication orders in the State of California; or
b. Physician Assistant with documentation of education and training as a Physician Assistant in family practice, adult, or emergency medicine, and possess a current license and a Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) registration number which provides the ability to provide drug/medication orders in the State of California; and  
2. Must have a current, valid American Heart Association Healthcare Provider CPR card (Applicants must list the expiration date of their CPR card in the free-flowing text box on the application).
	
NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City Application form, each applicant is required to complete the Advance Practice Provider Correctional Care Training and Experience Questionnaire at the time of filing.  The Advance Practice Provider Correctional Care Training and Experience Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application.  Applicants who fail to complete the Training and Experience Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed
2. Applicants must list their Furnishing Number and/or Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) registration number on the Training and Experience Questionnaire.
3. At the time of appointment, candidates must submit verification of their current, valid American Heart Association Healthcare Provider CPR card. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted online. When you are viewing the online job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. Online job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations.




APPLICATION DEADLINE

This examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. For administrative purposes, filing may close periodically and reopen the following day.


SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Evaluation of Training and Experience Questionnaire  . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of an evaluation of training and experience, wherein candidates will be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background and personal qualifications and abilities.  Emphasis will be placed on their knowledge of: professional medical theories and practices; techniques for taking medical histories and conducting physical examinations; safety principles and practices; medical management for routine medical conditions; and the ability to: act independently and in accordance with established protocols and/or procedures; evaluate technical medical data and make diagnoses; conduct comprehensive and focused physical examinations; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Training and Experience Questionnaires and City employment applications of all candidates will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation.  The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the candidate's City application and Training and Experience Questionnaire. 

NOTES:
	
1. Based on City policy, before being hired in one of these positions, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol screening test.
2. Individuals in this class may be assigned to rotating 12-hour and 8-hour shifts and may work in any of the three jail clinics.
3. Candidates may take this examination only once every 180 days during the administration of this examination.  Names may be removed from the open competitive eligible list after six months.
4.	As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5.	Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
6.	A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
 ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 2325CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (REVISED 04-06-12)  . . 02-08-08
                                                                                                                                                                                        

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

Class Code 2325CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . 02-08-08
                                                                                                                                                                                        

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

