AIR CONDITIONING MECHANIC

		Class Code:       3774
Open Date:  04-14-17
(Exam Open to All, including City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$90,118 (flat-rated)
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $99,054; $106,028 (flat-rated).

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Air Conditioning Mechanic installs, modifies, maintains, and repairs air-conditioning, refrigeration, heating, ventilating, and related equipment including control systems which may utilize electric, electronic, pneumatic or direct digital controls.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Completion of a recognized apprenticeship as a refrigeration and air conditioning fitter; or
2. Six years of full-time paid experience installing, modifying, maintaining, and repairing air conditioning, refrigeration, heating, ventilating, and related equipment.

Completion of 12 semester or 18 quarter units in Air Conditioning Technology, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Mechanics or Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Technology from a recognized college or trade school may be substituted for each year of the experience lacking specified in Requirement #2, up to a maximum of two years.  

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 must submit an Apprenticeship Certificate at the time of filing.  The copy of the Certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted.  If the Certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it.  Applicants who fail to submit the Certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience in Requirement #2 may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience is met.
3. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations (such as DUI).
4. In accordance with Section 608 of the Clean Air Act and SCAQMD Rule No. 1415, an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) - approved Universal Technician Certificate is required prior to appointment.  Most positions require a Universal Technician Certificate.
5.  Applicants filing under Requirement #2 using their City of Los Angeles experience must submit a "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form with the required signatures, verifying their experience installing, modifying, maintaining, and repairing air conditioning, refrigeration, heating, ventilating, and related equipment. Applicants required to submit a VWE form may attach the completed form to their online application at the time of filing or will have seven (7) calendar days from the online submission date to email a copy of their completed VWE form, including the required signatures, to per.appdocs@lacity.org. The subject line of your email must include the exam title, your name and indicate it is a VWE. In the body of your email, you must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number and contact phone number. Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
6. Applicants substituting education for experience must list their school name and location, course titles with the number of semester or quarter units, and completion dates in the Education section of the on-line application. 
7. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying coursework.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs  for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from April 14, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written Test  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of a multiple-choice written test.  In the multiple-choice written test, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: the operation principles of refrigeration and air conditioning systems and related machinery and equipment; the practices and procedures used in the installation and maintenance of refrigeration, air conditioning, and related equipment; boiling points and physical properties of various liquids and gases used in refrigerating and air conditioning equipment systems; general Direct Digital Controller systems and installation; hydronics as used in HVAC systems; airflow and temperature differentials in HVAC systems; practices and techniques of adjusting refrigeration, air conditioning, ventilation and heating equipment and control devices, including pneumatic, low voltage control wiring, and direct digital controls; techniques and procedures used in diagnosis and correction of electrical, electronic, pneumatic and mechanical failures in refrigeration and cooling equipment; the types and uses of tools, equipment, and gauges used by air conditioning mechanics in physical and electrical testing, adjusting, repairing, replacing, and overhauling refrigeration, air conditioning systems, and related machinery; practices and methods used in soldering and brazing used to join copper pipe and tubing in installation, and overhauling of refrigeration, air conditioning, gas heating, ventilation units, and related machinery; safety problems, hazards, and safe work practices related to working on air conditioning, refrigeration, heating, and ventilation equipment; the safe and proper usage of refrigerant recovery/reclaiming equipment; EPA 608 and SCAQMD 1415 rule for refrigerant compliance and record-keeping on systems weighing 50 pounds or more; indoor air quality issues pertaining to maintenance techniques and standards; and the ability to read, interpret, and utilize plans, manufacturer's specifications, national, state, and City mechanical codes, and American Society of Heating Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Engineers design specifications and standards pertaining to the installation, maintenance, modification, overhauling and repair of refrigeration, air conditioning, heating ventilation equipment, and related machinery; deal tactfully and effectively with coworkers, supervisors, staff from other public agencies, and members of the public; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be held in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, JUNE 17, 2017, in Los Angeles.

NOTES:	
	
1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Based on City policy, before being hired in one of these positions, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol screening test.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
8. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 

NOTICE:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  

Class Code 3774 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04-14-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

