AIRPORTS MAINTENANCE SUPERINTENDENT


                                                                                                       Class Code:       3331
                                                                                                       Open Date:  02-16-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$90,369 to $132,108

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Airports Maintenance Superintendent plans, organizes, and directs, through subordinate supervisors, the work of several crews of skilled craft and maintenance workers engaged in the operation, custodial care, maintenance, alteration, repair, and construction of airports buildings, grounds, airfields, and appurtenant equipment, including complex air-conditioning equipment; applies sound supervisory techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience as an Airports Maintenance Supervisor, or in a class which is at that level, supervising employees engaged in building equipment maintenance and operation, equipment operation, fleet maintenance, fleet equipment procurement, construction, or street maintenance; or
2. Four years of full-time paid experience as a Senior Building Operating Engineer, or in a class which is at that level, as a working supervisor of employees engaged in building equipment maintenance and operation, equipment operation, fleet maintenance, fleet equipment procurement, construction, or street maintenance.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement has been met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2018. 



SELECTION PROCESS


After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
		         Interview . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of experience and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidates' experience, training, and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of: maintenance program administration including buildings, grounds, airfields, heating ventilating and air conditioning, electrical systems, or custodial services; provisions of safety codes, such as Building, Cal/OSHA, Fire, and FAA regulations, as applied to the operation, maintenance, alteration and repair of buildings, airport facilities, airfields, parking lots, and roadways sufficient to inspect and review work in progress and completed work for compliance; Los Angeles World Airports' (LAWA) Administration Manual pertaining to policy, working activities, and personnel management within the organizational unit; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity Policies and Memoranda of Understanding as they apply to subordinate personnel; supervisory principles and practices such as planning, delegating, discipline, performance evaluation, organizing and directing; and the ability to read and interpret schematics, plans, and specifications relating to the repair, alteration, and construction of buildings, airport facilities, airfields, and parking lots; assist in the preparation of specifications for outside contractors and inspect contractor work for conformance; estimate time, personnel, equipment, and materials required for maintenance, custodial, and repair work sufficient to plan and prepare budgets; direct and coordinate the work of groups of employees engaged in a wide variety of skills involved in building operations, maintenance, custodial services, alterations and repair activities, and construction management; prepare written reports or memos in order to effectively correspond with City officials, FAA officials, other employees, outside contractors, and the public; effectively communicate on a one-to-one or group basis sufficient to obtain information, explain procedures, policies, or to persuade others to accept opinions or policies; deal tactfully and effectively with others; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of APRIL 23, 2018 through MAY 4, 2018.

Prior to the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of an Airports Maintenance Superintendent. This material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates who fail to complete the Advisory Essay as instructed may be disqualified.

The Advisory Essay will be administered online. Candidates invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps needed to complete the online Advisory Essay. Candidates will be required to complete the online Advisory Essay on SATURDAY, APRIL 7, 2018. Additional instructions will be sent via e-mail.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous City service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  

Class Code 3331 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 02-16-18


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


