ANIMAL CARE TECHNICIAN

Class Code:       4310
Open Date:  04-01-16
REVISED: 04-14-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$38,565 to $56,396

NOTES:

1. Higher salaries are paid for night work.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

An Animal Care Technician receives and cares for all types of domestic and wild animals; assists with transferring animals to other shelters; explains regulations regarding disposition of animals to the public; works with the public to adopt animals both in the shelter and at mobile adoption events; cares for dangerous and/or diseased and injured animals; interfaces with medical staff regarding the health of animals; and cleans kennels, cages, vehicles, buildings, yards and equipment.  Animal Care Technicians must assist in humanely euthanizing animals due to disease, injury or overcrowded conditions. Animal Care Technicians require contact with the public, volunteers, adoption partners, local veterinarians/clinics, internal staff and staff in other departments; and must provide excellent customer service and animal care.

An Animal Care Technician must be available for assignment to various shifts, weekends, and holidays, at any one of the animal care centers located in Central Los Angeles, South Los Angeles, West Los Angeles, San Pedro and the San Fernando Valley.

REQUIREMENTS

1. 1,040 hours of experience (paid or volunteer) in the care or maintenance of companion animals, which must include dogs, cats, or rabbits; or
2. Completion of 3 semester units or 4 quarter units from an accredited college or university in animal health or animal care.

NOTES:

1. Applicants filing under Requirement No. 2 must list in the Supplemental Questions section of the on-line application the course titles, number of semester/quarter units, completion date, and name and location of the college or university.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. All candidates must complete a thorough medical examination administered by the Personnel Department. Candidates must be able to perform duties that frequently include lifting up to 50 pounds and occasionally up to 100 pounds.
4. After appointment, Animal Care Technicians will be required to satisfactorily complete a four-week in-service training course conducted by the Department of Animal Services.
5. Candidates should obtain and read the Animal Care Technician Information Sheet, which describes some of the challenging aspects of the job of Animal Care Technician. The Information Sheet is available on-line at http://per.lacity.org/exams/4310sup.pdf. 
6. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
7. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying coursework.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from April 1, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:	Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying
	Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying multiple-choice written test and an interview. In the qualifying written test, which will consist entirely of multiple-choice questions, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: care and treatment of animals, including use of proper restraining methods, safety precautions to be observed and existing hazards; reading comprehension; and the ability to clean cages and animal facilities effectively; assist in feeding, euthanizing and rabies testing of domestic and wild animals; visually identify animal breeds and their characteristics, including symptoms of illness; perform basic arithmetic calculations; safely drive cars, vans and trucks; effectively operate a computer sufficient to retrieve information; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying multiple-choice test in order to be scheduled for the interview.

Passing Score for the Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test. The qualifying written test will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, JUNE 11, 2016, in Los Angeles. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's knowledge of: care and treatment of animals, including feeding, euthanization and rabies testing; proper handling techniques, including awareness of existing hazards and safety precautions to be observed; and the ability to clean cages and animal facilities effectively; visually identify animal characteristics, including symptoms of illness; use cameras and basic computer proficiency sufficient to upload photographs; deal tactfully and effectively with the public, supervisors, and others; communicate effectively orally; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin. 
4. Based on City policy, before being hired in one of these positions, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol screening test.
5. The incumbents of some positions in this class may be required to pass an annual or periodic work fitness evaluation to determine their eligibility for continued employment in this class.
6. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 4310 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04-01-16 REV 04-14-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

