AQUARIST
Class Code:       2400
Open Date:  05-02-14
ANNUAL SALARY

$55,624 to $69,133 and $61,846 to $76,817
Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

An Aquarist procures and maintains a variety of live seawater animals and plant life in aquaria; and maintains the electrical and mechanical components of large seawater systems.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Graduation from a recognized four-year college or university with a major in a biological science; and
2. Eighteen (18) months of full-time paid experience or the equivalent as an aquarist in the collection and care of live seawater specimens and the maintenance of a large seawater system.

NOTES:
	
1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete an Aquarist Training and Experience Questionnaire at the time of filing.  The Aquarist Training and Experience Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application.  Applicants who fail to complete the Training and Experience Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Additional experience of the above specified type may be substituted on a year-for-year basis for each year of education lacking.  [Thirty (30) semester or 45 quarter units equals one year of education].
4. Certification as a basic scuba diver is required prior to appointment.
5. Experience in the following areas is desirable:
a.	invertebrate marine animal maintenance
b.	closed seawater systems
c.	public aquarium systems
d.	identification and knowledge of Southern California flora and fauna
e.	mechanical aspects of life support systems for marine life

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted online. When you are viewing the online job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. Online job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Training and Experience Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 15, 2014.
In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will have their Training and Experience Evaluation scored in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from May 2, 2014 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

EXPERT REVIEW COMMITTEE

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, an Expert Review Committee may be assembled to evaluate each candidate's qualifications for the position of Aquarist. In this evaluation, the Expert Review Committee will assess each candidate's training and experience based upon the information in the candidate's City employment application. Only those candidates considered by the Expert Review Committee as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of an Aquarist, based solely on the information presented to the committee, will continue in the selection process.


SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Training and Experience Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of training and experience, wherein candidates may be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background and personal qualifications as they provide the knowledge of: marine life support systems and routine maintenance and repair requirements of such systems; physical factors necessary to support a wide variety of live marine animal and plant life; care and feeding of marine animals and plants; ecology of marine and plant life necessary for aquarium display purposes; types of marine animal and plant life native to the west coast of the United States; common marine animal diseases; marine ecology; aquarium display materials, techniques and construction techniques; and the ability to recognize and correct negative physical factors in an aquarium; analyze seawater and determine its content relative to the support of marine animal and plant life; conduct research on live exhibit displays including specimen compatibility, habitat, and care and maintenance requirements; use computers and computer software for life support system analysis and maintenance; communicate effectively and deal tactfully with the public, coworkers, volunteers, and others; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Training and Experience Questionnaires and City employment applications of all candidates will be submitted to an Expert Review Panel for evaluation.  The Expert Review Panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the candidate's City application and Training and Experience Questionnaire.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of candidates' City application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 2400. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05-02-14

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

Class Code 2400CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .02-25-05

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

