AQUARIUM EDUCATOR
Class Code:       2493
Open Date:  01-08-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$50,342 to $62,536 and $53,954 to $67,046

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Aquarium Educator develops and teaches educational programs about Southern California marine life to a diverse audience in laboratory classrooms and other field locations throughout greater Los Angeles; and does related work. 

REQUIREMENTS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a major in a natural science or education, and one year of full-time or two years of part-time paid or volunteer out of classroom (informal) or in classroom (formal) teaching experience which includes marine or life science in the curriculum; or 
2. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university, and three years of full-time or six years of part-time paid or volunteer out of classroom (informal) or in-classroom (formal) teaching experience which includes marine or life science in the curriculum. 

NOTES:  

1. For Requirement #1, the part-time paid or volunteer experience has to be equivalent to 2,080 hours.
2. For Requirement #2, the part-time paid or volunteer experience has to be equivalent to 6,240 hours. 
3. Experience teaching marine science to grades K-12, and in the care and maintenance of live and preserved marine life specimens is especially desirable.
4. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.    
5. Applicants must list their school name and location, type of degree earned, major and completion dates in the education section of the application.  
6. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
7. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations.



NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the technical interview in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from January 8, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on an evaluation of the nature and adequacy of the candidate's experience, training, and professional development as they have provided the background needed to carry out the duties of a Aquarium Educator. Emphasis will be placed on the following: Safety Focus, Initiative,   Job Knowledge, Interpersonal Skills, Teamwork, Flexibility, and Credibility.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/JobAnalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Aquarium Educator. 

Candidates will be notified by email of the date, time, and location of the interview which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of MARCH 7, 2016 through MARCH 18, 2016.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

 Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.


Class Code 2493 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 01-08-16  

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

