AQUATIC FACILITY MANAGER
Class Code:       2423
Open Date:  05-29-15
Revised: 06-09-15
                                                           (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$44,933 to $65,688; $50,049 to $73,163; and $55,728 to $81,473

     NOTES
     
1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 

DUTIES

An Aquatic Facility Manager directs or assists in the direction of the operation of a City pool, ocean beach, or lake facility; assigns, reviews, and evaluates the work of employees at these facilities; formulates, organizes, and conducts a comprehensive program of aquatic activities for adults and children at a City aquatic facility or may plan and organize specialized regional aquatic programs; coaches team and individual aquatic sports; conducts swimming, lifesaving, and instructor level classes; may act as a lifeguard; recruits, trains, certifies and supervises lifesaving personnel; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT

Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university and 1200 hours of paid experience as a Seasonal Pool Manager or an Open Water Lifeguard II or in a class at that level supervising water life saving activities.

NOTES:

1. Applicants must include the specific beginning and ending dates (month, day and year); and number of hours worked per week for each period of qualifying experience.
2. At the time of appointment you must present a valid certificate in Water Safety Instruction, Standard First Aid Instruction, Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation Instruction, and Lifeguard Training Instruction issued by the American Red Cross. A current Instructor Rating in Advanced First Aid and Emergency Care is acceptable for Standard First Aid Instruction. 
3. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Aquatic Facility Manager Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Aquatic Facility Manager Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
5. Applicants using City of Los Angeles experience must submit a Verification of Work Experience (VWE) form. The VWE form must indicate the percentage of time performing the work that is claimed as qualifying experience. The VWE form may be obtained on-line at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf.
6. Applicants required to submit a VWE form will have 7 calendar days from the on-line submission date to submit a copy of the form. A copy of the VWE form may be attached to the on-line application at the time of filing or delivered to the Personnel Department at 700 East Temple Street, Room 100, Los Angeles, CA 90012. Applicants who fail to submit a copy of their VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations. 

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination. 



APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received.  Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from May 29, 2015 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.


QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Aquatic Facility Manager may be evaluated based on the candidate's responses to the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of an Aquatic Facility Manager based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the candidate's knowledge of: principles and practices of planning, organizing, conducting, and coordinating a wide variety of aquatic and sports programs and fund raising activities for various groups; philosophy, objectives, and standards of public recreation; safety principles and practices; budget preparation; principles and practices of public relations; sound supervisory techniques including equal employment opportunity responsibilities; the ability to: develop training materials and provide instruction in aquatic activities and sports; communicate effectively and deal tactfully with a variety of individuals and groups; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Additionally, the interview board will consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire in their overall evaluation of the candidates' qualifications. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date and time of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of AUGUST 3, 2015 to AUGUST 14, 2015.

CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT

1. Candidates must achieve a qualifying time on the qualifying swimming test. The test will be given only to those candidates that receive a notice of certification and to employees annually.  The test will consist of the following two events:
A. 70-foot Dummy Tow.  Rescue of a dummy from the bottom of the pool (12 feet under water and 70 feet from the start point); by racing dive, sprint, retrieval and by securing and lifting the dummy to the pool deck; and
B. 200-yard Medley Swim.  Using proper style and form, swimming 50 yards of each of the following in sequence:  conventional breaststroke, backstroke, sidestroke and crawl in the prone position.  
2. The qualifying time is a weighted time of less than 9 minutes for the two events.  This time is computed by adding the actual time of the Dummy Tow multiplied by 4 and adding this score to the actual time of the Medley Swim.
3. Newly appointed candidates will be required to pass a medical examination given by a City physician.  Hearing must be normal without correction and vision should be at least 20/200 in both eyes uncorrected, with normal color vision.  Poorer vision may be accepted on a case by case basis to be determined by the City physician.  Contact lenses may be permitted in some cases.
4. After appointment, Aquatic Facility Managers will be required to satisfactorily complete an in-service training course conducted by the Aquatics Division of the Department of Recreation and Parks.
5. After appointment to the class of Aquatic Facility Manager, incumbents must successfully complete a timed swim test of 500 yards within a prescribed time of under ten minutes.

NOTES:
 
1. Based on City policy, before being hired in one of these positions, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol screening test.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met. 

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 2423. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05-29-15

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

