
AQUEDUCT AND RESERVOIR SUPERVISOR

Class Code:       5816
Open Date:   09-11-15
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$94,419 to $99,681

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the city of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf. 

DUTIES

An Aqueduct and Reservoir Supervisor supervises a group of employees engaged in patrolling and inspecting a reservoir or a section of the aqueduct to locate actual or potentially unsafe or unsanitary conditions, operating gates, valves, water measuring devices, and related equipment as instructed to control the flow of water, and maintaining reservoir grounds; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT

Three years of full-time paid experience as an Aqueduct and Reservoir Keeper with the City of Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents. Or conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

 Applications must be received by THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015.


SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Evaluation of Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of training and experience, wherein candidates will be evaluated on their experience, professional background and personal qualifications, as they have provided the necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities to direct a group of employees engaged in patrolling and inspecting aqueducts and reservoirs, including knowledge of: terminology, methods, and practices used in the operation of gates, screen systems, water measuring devices, distribution systems, and related equipment at water conveyances, storage and spreading facilities; elementary hydraulics with relation to water flow; fundamental laws, rules, regulations, principles and practices related to Equal Employment Opportunity; Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) as they apply to subordinate employees; fundamental principles and practices of supervision; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures; safety principles and practices including CAL/OSHA State safety rules concerning confined space entry, operation of water craft, motor vehicles, all-terrain vehicles, and related equipment; and ability to: read temperature, rain, and water gauges as well as other measuring devices; direct and coordinate the work of groups of; supervise a group of subordinate employees working multiple shifts at multiple locations; keep records, make arithmetical computations, and prepare reports using various methods; understand and follow directions; deal tactfully and effectively with employees, consultants, contractors, regulatory agencies and their representatives, lessees and the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

The Training and Experience Questionnaire will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 07, 2015 in Los Angeles and Bishop. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the test.

Training and Experience Questionnaires will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation.  The expert review panel will assign a numerical score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the candidate's Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the review panel.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
7.  In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination
process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.


THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 5816 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9-11-15

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

