ARTS MANAGER
Class Code:      2455
Open Date: 09-28-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$59,842 to $87,508; $70,511 to $103,105; and $82,789 to $121,020 

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 

DUTIES

An Arts Manager assigns, reviews and evaluates the work of a staff engaged in the administration of diverse art activities and programs, such as community and public arts, architectural design and review, cultural grant programs, art collections management, historic preservation, development and fund raising,  marketing, youth arts education programs, and cultural planning, or performs professional staff work in the above programs; develops budgets and expenditure plans; utilizes and maintains financial tracking and management systems; engages with the general public and elected officials as required; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Three years of full-time paid experience as a program administrator or director of an organization responsible for supervising a staff and for coordinating, developing, and implementing:
a. fine arts, digital media arts,  visual arts, folk arts, performing arts, or cultural activities and programs; or
b. programs and activities involving public art and/or community arts; or
c. grant writing, fundraising, public relations, and/or marketing campaigns for arts, cultural, or educational institutions or programs/activities or
2. A bachelor's degree from an accredited four-year college or university in Art History, Art Administration, Architecture, Business Administration, Cultural Studies, Historic Preservation, Marketing, Communications, English, Nonprofit Management, Public Art, or various artistic disciplines such as Music, Theater, Dance, Film, Design, Digital or New Media, Fine Arts, Literature,  or Folk and Traditional Arts; and two years of full-time paid experience coordinating a program which involve the activities described in requirement #1; or
3. A Master's Degree or Artist Diploma or Artist Certificate from an accredited conservatory, college or university in Art History, Arts Administration, Architecture, Business Administration, Cultural Studies, Historic Preservation, Marketing, Communications, English, Nonprofit Management, Public Art, or various artistic disciplines such as Music, Theater, Dance, Film, Design, Digital or New Media, Fine Arts, Literature, or Folk and Traditional Arts; and one year of full-time paid experience coordinating a program which involves the activities described in Requirement #1. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Arts Manager Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Arts Manager Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions of the City Application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement has been met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
5. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree and/or coursework.

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training.  Only persons possessing the following as of the close of the filing period may be considered for appointment to fill such positions:

Two years of full-time paid experience in the field of historic preservation including the application of the Secretary of the Interior's Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Arts Manager may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of an Arts Manager, based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review, will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and background as they demonstrate the knowledge of: arts administration and a variety of art disciplines, including dance, interdisciplinary arts, literary arts, media arts, classical and contemporary orchestral, opera, jazz, choral, and electronic music, theater, traditional and folk arts, urban and design arts, visual arts, murals, and cultural history and geography of the Los Angeles area; community resources to assist with the presentation and evaluation of art works, projects, and programs; social media platforms and how they can generate support and audiences for art projects and programs; steps, processes, and procedures to maintain murals, public art and fine arts in the public realm; art collections management systems, and processes and software; common problems and previously successful solutions used in grants administration; conditions in which such factors as complexity of a situation and/or vulnerability of the City to legal action require a management level decision; principles and practices of supervision, including assigning, delegating, reviewing, and evaluating the work of subordinates, motivating, providing positive and negative feedback, demonstrating approachability, and instilling confidence; laws and regulations related to Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO); techniques for communicating information, including computer technology and audio video equipment; and the ability to generate and regulate reasonable content on social media channels; prepare and review estimates of time and cost budgets and schedules for various projects and programs; plan and organize work; analyze and use various sources of information to assign work priorities, develop recommendations, and complete work; manage multiple projects concurrently at different stages of completion; read and interpret written materials; prepare Excel spreadsheets, charts, financial reports, and budgets; create reports from Access database; communicate effectively, both orally and in writing; interact tactfully and effectively with others; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

As part of their evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. The Qualifications Questionnaire will not be separately scored but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate's qualifications. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the interview panel.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of DECEMBER 3, 2018 TO DECEMBER 14, 2018.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.  
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
Class Code 2455 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .09-28-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 

