ASSISTANT COMMUNICATIONS ELECTRICIAN
 
Class Code:       3684                                                                                                
Open Date:  09-09-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY	

$70,094 (flat-rated)

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Assistant Communications Electrician assists in installing, constructing, repairing, maintaining, or modifying electronic communications equipment or systems; and fabricates chassis, control panels, cabinets, brackets, and mounting devices. 

NOTE:

Some positions in this class are designated as temporary training positions. Employment in such positions will be limited to a maximum of 48 months, during which the trainee must qualify for promotion to the Communications Electrician class. 

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience in the installation, construction, repair, operation, or maintenance of electronic communications equipment; or
2. Successful completion of:
a) A two-year program in electronics from an accredited college or trade school; or 
b) 30 semester or 45 quarter units in an electronics field of concentration from an accredited college or trade school; or
c) A military electronics technician course of 24 weeks or longer.

PROCESS NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record  within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. If you are filing under Requirement #2, please list the specific course titles and units in electronics or related studies you have completed in the designated section on the application.
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accredited agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2016.
In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from September 09, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 
SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%
The examination will consist of a weighted written test. In the weighted written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, the following competencies may be evaluated: reading comprehension, mathematics, attention to detail, interpersonal skills, customer service, teamwork, safety focus including basic safety principles and practices involved in working on or installing energized lines and equipment such as, high voltage power supplies, batteries, and antennas or antenna towers sufficient to adhere to rules and regulations, maintain safety, and avoid hazards, and job knowledge including knowledge of: basic principles of electricity and electronic theory relating to signal, control, telephone, telephone carrier, fiber optic, local/wide area networks, radio, video, teletype, noise monitoring, public address, telemetering, microwave, radar, avionics, paramedic, and data transmission systems and electronic test equipment sufficient to install, construct, repair, maintain or modify electronic communications equipment and systems; basic test equipment, tools, and materials such as, volt meters, hand meters, temperature probes, and networking cable certification equipment employed in the construction, servicing, installation, and repair of energized lines and equipment; basic electrical and mechanical schematic diagrams, drawings, and sketches sufficient to understand and interpret them in order to construct, service, install, and repair energized lines and equipment according to plan; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/jobanalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Assistant Communications Electrician.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2016, in Los Angeles.

NOTES:
1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by the Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Based upon City policy, before being hired in one of these positions, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol screening test. 
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin. 
5. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Code Class 3684 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09-09-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

