ASSISTANT STREET LIGHTING ELECTRICIAN

Class Code:       3809
Open Date:  07-21-17
Revised: 08-08-18
					(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$73,466 (flat-rated)

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Assistant Street Lighting Electrician assists a Street Lighting Electrician in the construction, repair and maintenance of high and low voltage electrolier street lighting systems.

REQUIREMENT/MINUMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid experience working in the construction, maintenance, and repair of street lighting circuitry.

PROCESS NOTES

1. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
2. A valid California Class B driver's license and valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles is required before completion of the six-month probationary period. Candidates will be asked to submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1808.1.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin. Applications submitted before the start of the filing period will not be accepted. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed below: 

From 8:00 am Tuesday, August 28, 2018 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, August 30, 2018
From 8:00 am Tuesday, February 26, 2019 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, February 28, 2019
From 8:00 am Tuesday, August 27, 2019 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, August 29, 2019

The examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. Filing periods may change without prior notice or additional dates may be added, as needed, at a later date. For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen on the dates noted in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates.  Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination score will be based entirely on a multiple-choice written test. In the written test, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of: terminology used for street light circuit components, such as grounding potheads, high voltage disconnects, receptacles, and various types of street lighting transformers sufficient to assist electricians in proper circuit installation; various types of wires, cables and splicing techniques used in street lighting electrical circuitry such as high and low voltage cable, various wire gauges, and types of insulation as contained in the Standard Specification for Public Works Construction Manual (SSPWCM); procedures and specifications used in conduit installation, including proper depth of conduit placement, sizes and types of conduit, and related connectors as contained in SSPWCM; procedures, materials, and specifications relating to pull box installations such as grades of rock, setting heights, and electrical bonding of conduits; types and uses of fuses such as cartridge, plug, stats, and circuit breaker used to isolate control of electrical source from work area; procedures necessary to properly attach a megger, headset, or other testing equipment to an electrical circuit; purpose for and use of a multifunction meter, including checking and measuring current flow; various types of street light posts, such as concrete, cast iron, and steel posts sufficient to properly assemble or disassemble post parts; proper use and function of derrick equipment sufficient to recognize signs of derrick equipment problems; boom clearance as required by Sections 1768 and 2946 of the California Construction Safety Orders sufficient to work around energized overhead lines; safety procedures and external operations of an air compressor, including starting, stopping, properly attaching equipment, and interpreting air pressure, water pressure, fuel, and oil gauges; electrical principles such as current flow and electrical conductivity sufficient to prevent personal injury and ensure safe work habits when working on multiple circuits; California Work Area Traffic Control Handbook, including control, warning, guidance devices, and types and uses of safety equipment such as cones, warning flags, warning signs, and barricades sufficient to ensure safe working conditions; basic first aid procedures used in treating on-the-job injuries such as cuts, electrical shock, abrasions, and punctures; safe driving rules and regulations applicable to the operation of heavy-duty trucks, including the use of safety equipment, proper weights, loads, and vehicle inspection as contained in the California Vehicle Code; and the ability to safely use various tools and equipment, including hand tools, pneumatic tools, power tools, crimping tools, pipe threaders, pipe reamers, and air pressure fittings; use various rigging techniques, including knots and hitches such as square knots, half hitches, and slip knots used to set or lift posts; read and interpret a variety of electrolier standard plans and circuit patrol maps; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time and location of the written test, which will be held in a single half-day session in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. You may take the Assistant Street Lighting Electrician written test only once every 365 days. If you have taken the Assistant Street Lighting Electrician written test during an open filing period in the Personnel Department within the last 12 months, you may not file for this examination at this time.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin. 
5. Based on City Policy, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
6. The incumbents of some positions in this class may be required to pass an annual or periodic work fitness evaluation to determine their eligibility for continued employment in this class.
7. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
8. Your rank on the employment list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of the examination are merged onto one list.
9. Your name may be removed from the open competitive list after 6 months.
10. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
11. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates. 
12. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
13. In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3809 CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .07-21-17 REV 08-08-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

