ASSISTANT INSPECTOR
Class Code:       4208
Open Date:  11-13-15
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$44,996 to $47,502; $50,550 to $53,369; $58,088 to $61,324; $65,375 to $69,029

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
 
DUTIES

An Assistant Inspector with the Department of Building and Safety or Housing Department assists inspectors and receives training in the inspection of buildings and structures, plumbing, heating and refrigeration, electrical installations, grading projects; or as an elevator or pressure vessel safety engineer.  Assistant Inspectors may be subject to frequent review, written examinations, and supervision, and may perform regular inspector's duties as indicated by training progress; may perform owner and property records research, data input, report generation and field data collection.  Assistant Inspectors in the Housing Department may post notices of inspection at multi-family properties and distribute pertinent information regarding housing related issues to the public. Assistant Inspectors in the Department of Public Works assist inspectors and receive training in the inspection of streets, sewers, storm drains, bridges and structures, and in the administration of public works contracts and permits; and may independently make inspections of a limited scope. 

REQUIREMENTS

1. Successful completion of 60 semester or 90 quarter units of coursework from an accredited trade school, college or university; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience in any one of the following:
a. Building, civil, or architectural design drafting, surveying or engineering construction; or
b. Building or public works inspection; or
c. Performing at least helper duties in any of the following: carpentry, electrical, heating and refrigeration, plumbing, iron worker, masonry or operating engineering work, inspected public works construction or any combination of these crafts; or
d. Working in property management of multi-family residential properties, coordinating the maintenance and repairs; or
e. Performing inspections for a private inspection service relating to construction, building, or housing: or
3. Three years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles' Departments of Building and Safety, Housing, or Public Works, Bureau of Contract Administration, processing compliance orders, plans, permits, appeals, property research, certificates of occupancy, or City contracts.

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience or are in their final semester or quarter may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full requirement is met. 
2. Candidates filing under Requirement No. 1 must list the school name, location, dates of attendance, number of units and degree (if any) in the Education section of the application. 
3. Education at an accredited trade school, college or university, at the rate of 30 semester or 45 quarter units equivalent to one year, may be substituted for a maximum of one year of experience lacking.
4. Completion of 12 semester or 18 quarter units from any of the following areas is highly desired: engineering; construction; design; inspection technology; architectural drafting; geology; civil, mechanical, electrical or fire protection engineering technology; math; or physics. Applicants should list the individual course titles for the 12 semester or 18 quarter units in the above subjects in the Supplemental Questions section of the application, including the school name, location, dates of attendance, and number of units for each course claimed as qualifying.
5. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
6. Appointments to the class of Assistant Inspector, Class Code 4208, will be made to temporary training positions in accordance with Section 5.30 of the Rules of the Board of Civil Service Commissioners for a maximum duration of five years.  New appointees who do not successfully complete the temporary training period will be terminated from the class.
7. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
8. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.










WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 2015.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles or who are on a reserve list and meet the minimum requirements; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received.  Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from November 13, 2015 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
	Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  100%

The examination for Assistant Inspector will consist of a qualifying written test and an interview. In the qualifying written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: arithmetic and geometry in order to check calculations on plans and specifications and calculate adjusted specifications; spreadsheet, database, and word processing computer applications; reading comprehension; written communication; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, JANUARY 23, 2016, in Los Angeles.  

Passing Score for the Qualifying Written Test
The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written tests are administered.  Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and existing anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years.  Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

All candidates who achieve passing scores on the qualifying written test will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview. The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the evaluation of the nature and adequacy of the candidate's experience and training as they have provided the knowledge and ability to: readily acquire and apply new information; organize and plan for task accomplishment; manage time and work diligently to complete assigned work/fulfill responsibilities; interact effectively and courteously with others; communicate orally with supervisors, co-workers, and the public in an effective manner; understand and follow oral and written instructions; deal tactfully and effectively with the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on validation studies, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the qualifying written tests will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. The incumbents of some positions in this class may be required to pass an annual or periodic work fitness evaluation to determine their eligibility for continued employment in this class.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. Upon appointment an Assistant Inspector may be required to furnish an automobile, properly insured, for use in City service.  Mileage will be paid according to established rates.
6. A final score of 70% in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.  This score will be based on each candidate's performance on the interview.  

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 4208 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11-13-15

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


