ASSISTANT COMMUNICATIONS CABLE WORKER

Class Code:       3808
Open Date:  08-04-17
REVISED: 08-17-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$52,096 to $74,103
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $71,326 to $88,593

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Assistant Communications Cable Worker assists in the installation, splicing, termination, maintenance, changing, removal, location of trouble, and repair of overhead, underground, and inside plant fiber optic and paired copper communications cables, lines, and appurtenant equipment including telephone, data, alarm, carrier, telemetry, and control circuits contained within these cables and lines; and works independently on routine tasks.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. One year of full-time paid experience as a helper in the installation, maintenance, or repair of communication, control, or power cable facilities; or
2. Completion of a certificate program in cable installation and maintenance from an accredited college or trade school; or
3. Completion of 12 semester units or 18 quarter units in electronics and/or telecommunications from an accredited college or trade school.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 must submit their certificate in cable installation and maintenance at the time of filing. The copy of the Certificate must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the Certificate is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the Certificate at the time of filing by not attaching it to the on-line application will not be considered further in this examination.
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #3 that have completed courses in electronics and/or telecommunications as stated in the requirement, must list the course titles with the number of semester or quarter units, school attended and completion dates in the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application.  Applicants who fail to provide this information on their application will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.  
4. A valid driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
5. Some positions may require a valid California Class B driver's license and valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles, prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).  Candidates will be asked to submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1808.1 prior to appointment.
6. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 using City of Los Angeles experience in a City class other than Assistant Communications Electrician and Assistant Signal Systems Electrician must submit a "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form with the required signatures, verifying their experience as a helper in the installation, maintenance, and repair of communication, control, or power cable facilities. Applicants may attach their completed VWE form to their on-line application at the time of filing, or will have seven (7) calendar days from the on-line submission date to email a copy of their completed VWE form to per.appdocs@lacity.org. The subject line of your email must include the exam title, your name and indicate it is a VWE. In the body of your email, you must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number and contact phone number. Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
7. Assistant Communications Cable Workers are required to climb unstepped poles and work in vaults and maintenance holes in the proximity of high voltage and are subject to the hazards of such work.
8. Candidates must have good color vision.
9. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
10. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying coursework.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, AUGUST 24, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written Test  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of a weighted written test. In the weighted written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, the following competencies may be evaluated: Safety Focus including: safety procedures required when installing, repairing, and removing overhead and underground communications cables and lines; the purpose and use of personal protective equipment; and first aid procedures; Mechanical Aptitude, Electrical Understanding, Teamwork, and Job Knowledge including knowledge of: electrical principles such as conductivity, inductance, and capacitance; techniques used to repair copper and fiber optic cables, open wires, and guy wires; hand and power tools used in the construction, installation, and repair of communication networks; the wiring color code; equipment that should be used when working in confined spaces; the distinguishing features of multi and single mode fiber cables; sources commonly associated with causing disruption and/or degradation to telephone lines and communication and control cables; General Order 95 and General Order 128 as prescribed by the Public Utilities Commission of the State of California; the methods used for pulling cable through underground conduits or for overhead cable installation; the methods and materials used to terminate cables; fiber optic bend radiuses; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Assistant Communications Cable Worker.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2017 in Los Angeles.  If you are unable to appear on the scheduled test date, please refer to? http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess for additional information.

NOTES:
		
1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not posses the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
5. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. Based on City policy, before being hired in this position, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol-screening test.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Section 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve problems prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3808 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .08-04-17 REV 08-17-17

