AVIONICS SPECIALIST
Class Code:       3565
Open Date:  10-31-14
ANNUAL SALARY

$90,660 (flat- Rated)

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

	DUTIES  
 
An Avionics Specialist is responsible for the installation, calibration, and repair of electronic systems used on aircraft.  Duties may include routine electronic maintenance (wiring), new installation and completion projects (R&D), troubleshooting or localizing and diagnosing causes of equipment malfunction, replacement of faulty components, tracing circuitry as well as aligning and adjusting repaired equipment.

REQUIREMENTS
  
1. Four years of full-time paid experience in the installation, calibration, and repair of electronic systems used on aircraft including two-way radio communications, navigational equipment and instrumentation, autopilot systems, integrated flight systems, flight management systems, video systems (camera, recording, and microwave down-link), and other necessary instrumentation required for flight; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience of the type specified in Requirement #1, and
a. Completion of a certificate program or associate degree program in electronics technology, telecommunications, or computer science at a recognized college or trade school; or
b. Successful completion of a U.S. military electronics technical course of 24 weeks or longer within the last 10 years.
3. A valid FCC General Radiotelephone license is required at the time of filing. A copy of this license must be submitted within 7 calendar days from the on-line submission date of the application.  Candidates who fail to submit this document within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.  A copy of the license may be submitted in person or mailed to: Personnel Department, Room 100, 700 E. Temple Street, Los Angeles, CA 90012.

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application form, each applicant is required to complete the Avionics Specialist Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Avionics Specialist Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.  
2. Applicants lacking six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if within the past 36 months they were convicted of a major moving violation, such as driving under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs, and may be disqualified if there are three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents within the past 36 months. 
4. Applicants qualifying under Requirement #2, please see on-line application for instructions on submitting required documents.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2014.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received.  Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from October 31, 2014, in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

EXPERT REVIEW COMMITTEE

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, an Expert Review Committee may be assembled to evaluate each candidate's qualification for the position of Avionics Specialist. In this evaluation, the Expert Review Committee will assess each candidate's training and experience based upon the information in the candidate's City employment application and the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered by the Expert Review Committee as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Avionics Specialist, based solely on the information presented to the committee, will be invited to participate in the interview.

SELECTION PROCESS

		           
Examination Weights:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and personal qualifications as they demonstrate the knowledge of: principles of electricity and electronic theory relating to avionics systems, flight instruments, public safety mission equipment, as well as various voice and data radio systems across the frequency spectrum; methods of installing, servicing, rebuilding, and repairing avionics systems, flight instruments, public safety mission equipment, as well as various voice and data radio systems across the frequency spectrum; rules and regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration and Federal Communications Commission and departmental rules pertaining to the operation, documentation, and maintenance of avionics and public safety mission equipment; electronic test equipment, tools, and materials employed in the construction, servicing, installation, and repair of communications systems such as stationary and mobile radio, microwave, avionics, and display systems; safety precautions and hazards involved in working on electronic equipment, installing electronic aircraft equipment both on the ground and in the air, and performing maintenance of aircraft; and ability to troubleshoot avionics systems, flight instruments, public safety mission equipment, as well as various voice and data radio systems across the frequency spectrum using the appropriate resources, tools, and test equipment; orally communicate technical and non-technical information clearly and effectively; deal tactfully with others; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JANUARY 5, 2015 to JANUARY 16, 2015.

NOTES:

1. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at  http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidate's employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum requirements are met.

NOTICE:  If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3565 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-31-14

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

