BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION MANAGER
                                                                                                                                                        Class Code:        1759
                                                                                                      Open Date:   06-09-17
(Exam Open to All, Including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$102,165 to $149,375

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Background Investigation Manager is a civilian employee who directs a large staff of Background Investigators engaged in the personal and professional background investigations of candidates for public safety-sensitive positions of various City departments; plans, organizes, and assigns work and resources; may act as staff advisor to management; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; and performs other related duties.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1.	One year of full-time paid experience (or 2,080 cumulative work hours) as a Background Investigator III, Special Investigator II, Police Special Investigator, or Fire Special Investigator with the City of Los Angeles; or
2.	Two years of full-time paid experience (or 4,160 cumulative work hours) as a Background Investigator II or Special Investigator I with the City of Los Angeles; or     
3. 	Currently employed as a full-time paid Background Investigator with the City of Los Angeles and three years of full-time paid sworn experience in a position at the level of lieutenant.
4. 	Three years of full-time paid experience at the level of a background investigator with an agency supervising personnel engaged in the personal and professional background investigations of candidates for public safety positions.

PROCESS NOTES

1.	Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2.	A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination. 


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be submitted on-line by THURSDAY, JUNE 22, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Evaluation of Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination for Background Investigation Manager will consist entirely of a Training and Experience Questionnaire. In the Training and Experience Questionnaire, the following competencies may be evaluated: Judgment and Decision Making, Teamwork, Credibility, Oral Communication, Listening, Program Responsibility, Leadership, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: selection standards set forth by the California Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training (POST) sufficient to assure that background investigations are conducted in compliance and will pass POST review/audit; current Federal and State laws (i.e. EEO, Consumer Credit reporting) as they pertain to the background investigations process; proper investigative techniques and procedures as delineated in POST for conducting background investigations; knowledge of the Civil Service standards and guidelines, and/or POST necessary to plan, organize, direct, control, and evaluate the background investigation process; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Background Investigation Manager.

The Training and Experience Questionnaires of all candidates will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the Training and Experience Questionnaire. 

The Training and Experience Questionnaire will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, JULY 29, 2017, in Los Angeles. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the test.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous City service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit as indicated above, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
8. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure minimum qualifications have been met.
9. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
10. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:
If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

	
THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1759 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .03-01-13


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

Class Code 1759 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .06-09-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

