BENEFITS SPECIALIST

Class Code:       1203
Open Date:  01-19-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$54,120 to $79,156
The salary for the Department of Water and Power is $63,099 to $78,383.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Benefits Specialist counsels and provides information on employee benefits and retirement programs; researches and resolves issues regarding program services and benefits; performs benefit calculations; may assign, review and evaluate the work of subordinates engaged in support activities for this work; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; and does related work.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full time paid experience in a class at the level of Senior Administrative Clerk (formerly Senior Clerk Typist) in the administration of employee benefit or retirement programs, including providing counseling, researching retirement or benefit related information, providing benefit services, or performing retirement or benefit related calculations, using systems/software to obtain appropriate data.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all candidates must complete the Benefits Specialist Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Benefits Specialist Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions of the City Application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. For qualifying experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, to be at the level of Senior Administrative Clerk requires eighteen months of clerical experience with increasing responsibilities. Therefore, non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after eighteen months of clerical experience.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter. 


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from January 19, 2018 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Benefits Specialist may be evaluated based on the candidate's responses to the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Benefits Specialist based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualification, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Essay. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory           
                                      Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of: State, Federal, and local laws governing defined benefit, retirement benefits, defined contribution plans or City of Los Angeles health benefit programs; provisions of the City Charter, Administrative Code, and City Attorney opinions related to defined benefits, retirement systems and benefits, defined contribution plans or City of Los Angeles health benefit programs; distinctions between a defined benefit plan and a defined contribution plan; effective member counseling techniques sufficient to successfully counsel members on benefit options, service retirement, disability and death benefits, withdrawals, and reciprocal provisions as they apply to a defined benefit or contribution plan; database management systems or spreadsheets, such as Microsoft Excel, sufficient to enter counseling related information into the system and perform member benefit calculations; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including directing, assigning, motivating, counseling, disciplining, commending and evaluating the work of subordinates; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures including Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO), and Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) as they relate to subordinate personnel; and the ability to direct and coordinate the work of employees engaged in performing benefits-related activities; prioritize multiple assignments in order to meet goals and deadlines; analyze, solve problems and present solutions to resolve escalated member issues and appeals; learn, understand, interpret, and apply laws, policies, and procedures applicable to defined contribution plans; prepare written reports or memos in order to effectively correspond with members and staff; perform basic arithmetic calculations sufficient to calculate members' benefits; communicate orally sufficient to make presentations and provide effective customer service; interact tactfully and effectively with a variety of individuals in counseling and other types of benefits-related situations, including other pension plans, government agencies, and contract service providers; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

The Qualifications Questionnaire will not be separately scored, but will be considered by the interview board in evaluating each candidate's qualifications. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of APRIL 9, 2018 through APRIL 20, 2018.

Prior to the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Benefits Specialist. This material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates who fail to complete the Advisory Essay as instructed may be disqualified.

The Advisory Essay will be administered online. Candidates invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps needed to complete the online Advisory Essay. Candidates will be required to complete the online Advisory Essay on SATURDAY, MARCH 24, 2018. Additional instructions will be sent via e-mail.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS
	
The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1203 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  01-19-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

