BUILDING ELECTRICAL ENGINEER

Class Code:       7543
Open Date:  07-15-16
REVISED: 07-18-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$94,858 to $134,927 and $105,444 to $149,981

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Building Electrical Engineer supervises and participates in the preparation of plans, specifications and drawings for facilities, high and low voltage electrical systems such as power distribution systems, lighting, communication, control and instrumentation systems; supervises the checking of such plans for feasibility, constructability and conformance to good engineering practices and code requirements; may supervise a unit engaged in electrical testing of electrical appliances and equipment; or may supervise a section engaged in facility construction and commissioning.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles in a position at the level of Electrical Engineering Associate II performing building electrical design, construction and maintenance; or 
2. Possession of an Engineer in Training Certificate and four years of full-time paid professional electrical engineering experience in facilities electrical systems design, construction and maintenance, plan checking of electrical systems for compliance with code and safety requirements, or testing of electrical equipment.  Two years of the required experience must have been as a lead or supervisor of engineering professionals.  

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete a Building Electrical Engineer Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Building Electrical Engineer Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Applicants filing under Requirement 1 must indicate the appropriate pay grade for each City engineering position listed in the application.
4. Applicants filing under Requirement 2 must list their lead or supervisory experience separately in the application.
5. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university or an Engineer in Training (EIT) Certificate in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in a position after obtaining a four-year degree or EIT Certificate.
6. Registration as an Electrical Engineer with the California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists is required prior to appointment.
7. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.
8. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.



APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet 
the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from July 15, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Building Electrical Engineer may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Building Electrical Engineer, based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review, will continue in the selection process.


SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights: Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
			 Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's work experience and professional development as they have provided the background necessary to perform the duties of a Building Electrical Engineer, including knowledge of: principles and practices of electrical engineering as applied to the design, construction, maintenance, installation, and repair  of electrical systems, including heating units, refrigeration units, air conditioning units, elevators, electrical vehicle charging stations, and solar photovoltaic systems; principles and practices of electrical engineering as required by the National Electrical Code, State of California Energy Regulation, Underwriters Laboratories, California Code-Title 24, and Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED); materials and equipment used in building electrical systems; principles of mathematics, physics, chemistry, metallurgy, and electricity relevant to the field of electrical engineering; safety principles and practices; procedures and standards as related to the testing of electrical equipment and materials; City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity policies;  supervisory principles and practices, including planning, coordinating, discipline, controlling, training, and evaluation of subordinate personnel; and the ability to apply electrical engineering knowledge to the solution of specific problems; interpret and analyze architectural, mechanical, plumbing, and structural plans; review electrical plans and make appropriate recommendations; review and comment on written specifications; prepare electricity plans using Computer Aided Design and Drafting (CADD) software; prepare and administer training programs for electrical engineering personnel; plan, direct, and review the work of others; deal tactfully and effectively with architects, engineers, fellow employees, and the public; prepare clear and comprehensive technical reports; communicate orally in a clear and effective manner; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

As part of their evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will also consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire.  Candidates may expect panel members to discuss this information during the interviews.  Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the interview panel.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of OCTOBER 17, 2016 to OCTOBER 28, 2016.

Candidates will also be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Building Electrical Engineer. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their advisory essay responses. Those who do not complete the advisory essay will not be invited to the interview and will be considered to have failed the examination. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the advisory essay test which will take place in Los Angeles and will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2016. 

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated in the bulletin.
3. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON 
AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7543. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .07-15-16 REV 07-18-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER



Class Code 7543 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07-15-16

