CABLE TELEVISION PRODUCTION MANAGER       

    									     Class Code:       1801
Open Date:  12-14-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$78,279 to $114,443; $94,210 to $137,745; and $103,940 to $151,964.

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Cable Television Production Manager supervises, manages, budgets, coordinates and schedules the City's cable television production/post production facilities and staff; plans, develops and implements the municipal uses of its cable channel, websites, and social media for public information and other applications related to the use of digital technology; works with staff to ensure the efficient and effective resolution of any issues that may arise in day-to-day operations; and acts as Senior Producer and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a degree in Television/Film Production, Journalism, Communications, Media Management or a closely related field; and
2. Two years of full-time paid experience as a manager at a broadcast or cable television facility, television production company, or web content production company; or
3. Two years of full-time paid experience as an Executive, Senior, Coordinating or Web Content Producer.

Four years of full-time paid experience in management of a broadcast or cable television facility or a television production or web content production company may be substituted on a year-for-year basis for the required degree noted in Requirement #1 above.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to answering the regular City application supplemental questions, each applicant is required to complete the Cable Television Production Manager Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Cable Television Production Manager Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed. 
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. 
5. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, DECEMBER 27, 2018.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received or by qualifications review. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Cable Television Production Manager may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Cable Television Production Manager based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process. 

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory 
       Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination for Cable Television Production Manager will consist entirely of an evaluation of experience, training, and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: judgment and decision making, attention to detail, responsiveness and follow-up, interpersonal skills, teamwork, flexibility, project management and job knowledge, including the knowledge of: television and multimedia production at a production facility, cable station, or production company management office; Federal, State, and local television production regulations; safety principles and practices relating to television productions such as proper use of production equipment; factors necessary to plan, develop and coordinate television programs in a variety of formats, including long and short formats necessary to produce live events, studio operations, electronic news gatherings, electronic field productions, production and satellite trucks, magazines, documentaries, and field and studio acquisition formats; producing, directing, writing, budgeting, scheduling, and managing a production sufficient to act in these positions during a production, if necessary; technology for television operations and content production including Non-linear Editing, Production Asset Management (PAM), Media Servers, File Transcoders, Archive systems, Scheduling Programs, Robotics Camera Systems, and On Air Playout Systems, and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Cable Television Production Manager.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of FEBRUARY 18, 2019 to MARCH 1, 2019.

Prior to the interview, applicants will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Cable Television Production Manager. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Please note that applicants must complete the advisory essay and meet minimum qualifications as stated on this bulletin in order to be considered further in the examination process.

The advisory essay will be administered on-line. Applicants invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps needed to complete the on-line advisory essay. Applicants will be required to complete the on-line advisory essay between JANUARY 14, 2019 and JANUARY 22, 2019. Additional instructions will be sent via e-mail. Applicants who fail to complete the advisory essay as instructed may be disqualified.
 
NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.  

Notice: 

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN 
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1801. . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-14-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

