CARPENTER

Class Code: 3344
Open Date: 01-12-18
	                                 (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$86,312 (flat-rated)
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $93,542 (flat-rated)

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Carpenter does skilled rough and finish carpentry in building and repairing wood structures and articles; work may include forming for the placement of concrete.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Completion of an apprenticeship as a carpenter or cabinetmaker; or
2. Six years of full-time paid experience performing carpenter or cabinetmaker work.

Completion of a minimum 18-month or longer program in carpentry or cabinetmaking and millwork from an accredited institution may be substituted for each year of experience lacking up to a maximum of two years.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 must submit a copy of their apprenticeship certificate. Applicants must attach a copy of the Apprenticeship Certificate to the on-line application at the time of filing. The certificate must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the certificate. Applicants who fail to submit the Apprenticeship Certificate at the time of filing by not attaching it to the on-line application will not be considered further in this examination. 
3. Applicants substituting an 18-month or longer carpentry or cabinetmaking and millwork program for each year of experience lacking up to a maximum of two years must attach a copy of their certificate of completion of the program to the on-line application at the time of filing. The certificate must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the certificate. Applicants who fail to submit the applicable certificate at the time of filing by not attaching it to the on-line application will not be considered further in this examination. 
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JANUARY 25, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the weighted multiple-choice test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from January 12, 2018 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Multiple-Choice Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of a weighted multiple-choice test administered and proctored on-line. In the on-line multiple-choice test, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: the proper use of hand tools used in the field of carpentry; the component parts of wood and chain link fences and gates; symbols and terminology commonly used on carpentry blueprints and sketches; joints, hardware, and parts as used in conjunction with doors, windows, sashes, frames and other items made of wood; types of wood used in the field of cabinetry; tools used in constructing scaffolds and spans; shoring for trenching; how to use a builder's level; adhesives and techniques used to layout various types of floors and ceilings; various types of suspended ceiling components; connectors and fasteners used for heavy construction; terminology used in roofing, including roofing materials and roof framing; how to construct footings; various types of glass, putties and fasteners; how to install steel stud walls; state safety requirements pertaining to stairways and footings; Cal/OSHA safety codes and personal protective equipment; math including algebra and geometry as it relates to the field of carpentry; and the ability to: read, analyze, and work from blueprints and sketches; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

The multiple-choice test will be proctored and administered on-line during a single session. Candidates invited to participate in the on-line multiple-choice test will be able to take the test from any location using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will receive an email from the City of Los Angeles outlining the dates and specific steps on how to take the multiple-choice test on-line. It is anticipated that the remote proctored multiple-choice test will be held in APRIL 2018. Candidates who do not complete and submit the remote proctored multiple-choice test on-line using a computer by the specified date and time will not be considered further in this examination.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the multiple-choice test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. The incumbents of some positions in this class may be required to pass an annual or periodic work fitness evaluation to determine their eligibility for continued employment in this class.
4. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
5. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
7. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
8. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3344. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 01-12-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess





