CEMENT FINISHER SUPERVISOR

                                                                                                                      Class Code:       3354    
Open Date:  12-09-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY  

$90,744 (flat-rated)
The salary range for the Department of Water and Power is $91,830 to $96,945

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Cement Finisher Supervisor assigns, reviews and evaluates the work of a group of cement finishers and other employees engaged in mixing, placing, and finishing concrete; applies sound supervisory techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Four years of full-time paid experience as a Cement Finisher or Masonry Worker with the City of Los Angeles.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above required experience may file for this examination. However, they    cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, DECEMBER 22, 2016.


SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights: Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying
                                       Interview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%
 
The examination for Cement Finisher Supervisor will consist of a qualifying written test and interview.  In the qualifying multiple-choice written test, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: technical aspects of the cement finishing trade, including concrete form and flat work, proportioning, water-cement ratios, mixing, and vibration; methods of screeding, finishing, and patching concrete structures; setting characteristics of concrete; the use of admixtures and concrete curing compounds; form construction and alignment; reinforcing steel, lathe, and plaster work; tilling and block and brick laying; construction procedures and techniques sufficient to anticipate any special equipment requirement; new materials used in cement finishing, including additives, fiberglass reinforcement, wonder board, and quick set cements; the use of tools such as transits, measuring tapes, carpenter's level, and squares; construction tools and equipment sufficient to evaluate when maintenance, repair or replacement is needed; pertinent construction and building codes, such as L.A. Building Code, Cal OSHA safety orders and the Standard Specifications for Municipal Constructions; safety procedures and safe working practices, including pertinent sections of the Department of Water and Power safety rules and Cal OSHA regulations; fundamental supervisory principles and practices including directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending and evaluating the work of subordinates; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunities; and the ability to perform cement finishing work including block laying, concrete sawing, and pumping; recognize and distinguish between various grades of construction materials; read and interpret maps, construction plans, blueprints, material lists and drawings; lay out a job site from a plan, drawing, or by inspection; perform arithmetic calculations such as addition, multiplication, subtraction, division, fractions, and decimals sufficient to calculate volumes and estimate materials; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by mail of the time and location of the qualifying written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2017, in Los Angeles. 

Passing Score for Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered.  Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years.  Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

All candidates who pass the qualifying multiple-choice written test will be invited to participate in the interview.

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview.  In the interview, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: construction procedures and techniques sufficient to anticipate any special equipment requirements; construction tools and equipment sufficient to evaluate when maintenance, repair, or replacement is needed; safety rules and regulations such as Cal/OSHA regulations, DWP safety rules and Work Area Traffic Control Handbook; physical characteristics of construction materials sufficient to secure proper storage space for materials; technical aspects of the cement finishing trade in order to provide proper supervision and instruction to helpers and journey level workers; pertinent construction and building codes, such as L.A. Building Code, Cal/OSHA safety orders, and the Standard Specifications for Municipal Constructions; fundamental supervisory principles and practices including directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending and evaluating the work of subordinates; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunities; and the ability to prioritize and schedule work assignments based on factors such as public safety, location, crew, material and equipment availability, emergency conditions, and time constraints; assess job site conditions to ensure estimates of labor and materials requirements are accurate;  recognize and distinguish between various grades of construction materials, including  steel reinforcement, block, aggregates, and cements; read and interpret maps; use digital type cameras in order to document damage to property, work progress, or completed projects; perform cement finishing work including block laying, concrete sawing and pumping; estimate the amount of materials and labor required for construction projects; communicate orally in an effective, clear, and concise manner; deal tactfully and effectively with employees, supervisors, outside agencies, and the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

NOTES:

1. The examination is based on a validation study.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin. 
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
4. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate. 

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
        ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS   NVVC

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3354. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-09-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


