CHIEF PORT PILOT

Class Code:      5154
Open Date: 03-18-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$245,758 to $281,462 and $264,445 to $302,864

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade position. 
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Chief Port Pilot supervises the work of a group of Port Pilots, Boat Captains,  Deck Hands, and dispatchers engaged in providing inbound and outbound vessels with piloting services in the Port of Los Angeles; pilots ocean-going ships arriving and departing the Port of Los Angeles; may serve on various maritime related committees or boards to enhance safety in the Port and satisfy existing and future customer needs; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective workforce; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities. 

 REQUIREMENTS

1. United States Coast Guard Certification as a First Class Pilot for the San Pedro Bay; its approaches and tributaries with unlimited tonnage; and
2. Three years of full-time paid experience as a Port Pilot II for the City of Los Angeles Harbor Department; or 
3. Six years of full-time paid experience as a United States Coast Guard licensed:
a) Ship pilot whose duties include docking and undocking of oceangoing or coastwise vessels of not less than 10,000 gross tons in a port of the United States; or
b) Master in a position which provides experience performing ship piloting duties on inspected vessels of not less than 10,000 gross tons. 		
NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Applicants must attach a copy of the following license to the on-line application at the time of filing:
a) United States Coast Guard Master and/or Ship Pilot License; and
b) United States Coast Guard certification as a First Class Pilot for the San Pedro Bay and its approaches and tributaries with unlimited tonnage.
The copies of the licenses must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the documents are attached AFTER the online application is submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with possessing the licenses. 
3. Applicants filing under Requirement 3b must list the name and gross tons of the vessel in the Work Experience Section of the application. 
4. Applicants filing under Requirement 3b must attach copies of Certificates of Discharge to Merchant Seaman. The copies of the certificates must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the documents are attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with possessing the license.
5. Piloting experience in San Pedro Bay is highly desirable.
6. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university is highly desirable and it is anticipated that future exams may require a degree. 
7. The following conditions must be met prior to appointment:
a. A valid California driver's license is required prior to appointment. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
b. Qualification by the United States Coast Guard as a radar observer.
8. Employees in this class must possess and maintain the physical stamina and agility to be able to board on to and disembark from ships at sea by climbing a Jacob's ladder in all manner of weather and sea conditions. 
9. In addition to the regular City application, each candidate must complete the Chief Port Pilot Qualifications Questionnaire. The Chief Port Pilot Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.


NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be completed at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from March 18, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Objectivity, Supervision, Oral Communication, Written Communication, Leadership, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: the local conditions and features of the San Pedro Bay and area inside the harbor, laws and regulations of the Harbor Department, and State and Federal Agencies governing the operation and piloting of vessels at the Port of Los Angeles, navigation principles necessary to pilot a vessel in to or out of Los Angeles Harbor, emergency maneuvers, such as dropping anchor, changing engine use or changing tug positioning sufficient to pilot during emergencies, and safe working practices and conditions in a port facility.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/JobAnalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Chief Port Pilot. 

As part of their evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the Chief Port Pilot Qualifications Questionnaire form will not be separately scored, but will be considered by the interview board in evaluating each candidate's qualifications. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview.  Qualifications Questionnaire information submitted by the candidate on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of MAY 2, 2016 to MAY 13, 2016.

NOTES:	
	
1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Promotional candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of continuous service in those classes which provide qualifying experience for this position. A maximum of one point will be added to the score of those candidates.
3. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score (without military credits) than the highest available promotional candidate (after adding seniority credit as described in the preceding Note) the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open candidates ahead of the promotional candidates. 
4. All candidates will be required to pass a medical examination which will include an electrocardiograph; must meet high standards of vision and hearing; and must satisfactorily pass basic orthopedic tests for vertebral column and lower extremities.  Based on City policy, before being hired in one of these positions, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol-screening test. After employment, Chief Port Pilots will be subject to an annual physical examination for retention in employment and will be subject to drug testing in accordance with U.S. Coast Guard regulations.
5. Appointment to a position in this class is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the City Charter. 
6. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
7. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
8. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
9. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis. 
10. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.
	
THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 5154 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03-18-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 

