CHIEF BENEFITS ANALYST

Class Code:      9151
Open Date: 09-23-16
REVISED: 10-06-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$120,644 to $171,654

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Chief Benefits Analyst provides strategic direction and coordination of the work of a staff of professional, technical, paraprofessional, and clerical employees providing operations administration or benefits-related services for a pensions or retirement office; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective workforce; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles in a class at the level of Senior Management Analyst which provides experience in the development and administration of retirement or health benefits-related services, or the operations of a pension or retirement plan; or
2. Five years of full-time paid professional experience in the development and administration of retirement or health benefits-related services, or the operations of a pension or retirement plan. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all candidates must complete the Chief Benefits Analyst Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Chief Benefits Analyst Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions of the City Application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that required possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
6. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and Qualification Questionnaires will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 


NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order the applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from September 23, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Chief Benefits Analyst may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Chief Benefits Analyst, based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review, will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights: Essay. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
                                      Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of experience and personal qualifications by interview. During the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's knowledge of: organization, policies, procedures, and functions of a defined benefits public pension system; basic laws establishing and controlling retirement systems or pension plans; practices and procedures used in the administration of health benefits for retirees; general actuarial concepts; basic Equal Employment Opportunity laws as they relate to subordinate personnel; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending and evaluating the work of subordinates; and the ability to plan, organize, direct, control, evaluate, and provide strategic direction for a variety of benefit-related activities; interpret statistical data, charts, and diagrams; develop subordinates through training and performance feedback; resolve conflicts among subordinates by openly dealing with problems and taking corrective action to maintain morale and productivity; deal tactfully and effectively with management, customers, subordinates and others involved with similar work programs, including external advisors and legal counsel; write narrative reports, position papers, briefs, memos, letters, new or revised policies, practices, or procedures; prepare and present oral reports and recommendations concisely, logically, and convincingly; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JANUARY 16, 2017 TO JANUARY 27, 2017.

Candidates will be required to prepare some written material on a topic related to the duties and responsibilities of a Chief Benefits Analyst. This essay material will not be scored separately, but will be presented to the interview panel for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate.  In addition, as part of the evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will also consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board.

Candidates must complete the advisory essay.  Those who do not complete the advisory essay will not be invited to the interview and will be considered to have failed the entire examination.  Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the advisory essay session, which will be held in a single half day session on SATURDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2016, in Los Angeles. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their responses to the Advisory Essay.

NOTES:

1. Appointment to a position in this class is subject to a one year probationary period as provided by Civil Service Rule 5.26 and Charter Section 1011. 
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title 11 of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin. 
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credit, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.10 of a point seniority credit in those City classes which will provide qualifying experience for this position, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates. A maximum of one point will be added to the score of the candidates.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates. 
8. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met. 
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
 INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Code No. 9151 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .09-23-16 REV 10-06-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

