CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE ANALYST

                                                                                                                        Class Code:     1554
                                                                                                    Open Date:  06-24-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$122,732 to $179,442 (effective 6/26/16)

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 

DUTIES

A Chief Administrative Analyst directs and coordinates the work of a group of analysts engaged in administrative management and budgetary administration, labor relations administration including negotiations and salary/benefits analysis, capital programming, and management auditing; and represents the City Administrative Officer on municipal committees and before governmental officials, citizens' groups and others for the purpose of solving difficult administrative or legislative problems; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS

1.	Two years of full-time paid professional experience as a Senior Administrative Analyst II or in a position at that level which provides professional experience in budgetary analysis and control, general and financial administration, administrative or legislative analysis and research, or personnel administration or
2.	Four years of full-time paid professional experience as a Senior Administrative Analyst with the City of Los Angeles performing budgetary analysis and control, general and financial administration, or other closely related duties.

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete a Chief Administrative Analyst Training and Experience Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Chief Administrative Analyst Training and Experience Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Chief Administrative Analyst Training and Experience Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Training and Experience Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2016.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight: Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of training and experience, wherein candidates may be evaluated on their experience, professional background, personal qualifications and abilities. Emphasis may be placed on the nature and adequacy of the candidate's experience and professional development as they have provided the skills, knowledge, and abilities needed to direct a major work activity in the Office of the City Administrative Officer, including knowledge of: principles, practices, methods and techniques of public administration, with special reference to governmental budgeting, reporting, organization, financial administration, administrative analysis and capital programming; State, County and City interrelationships; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity responsibilities; safety principles and practices; and the ability to apply creativity, strategic thinking and political awareness to a variety of work-related circumstances, including policy development, problem resolution and negotiations; develop and manage an effective work program or project; plan, layout, coordinate, direct and review the work of a group of employees; develop subordinates through training and performance feedback; motivate subordinates to maximize productivity; prepare and present oral and written reports and recommendations which are logically arranged, concise, convincing and incorporate correct English grammar, syntax, spelling, and sentence structure; deal tactfully, effectively, and persuasively with public officials, management, employees, employee organizations, community groups and the public sufficient to successfully handle sensitive situations, enter into negotiations, and address various issues and concerns; and other necessary knowledge, skills and abilities.

NOTES:

1. Appointment to a position in this class is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
2. Candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those City classes which provide qualifying experience for this class.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of the candidates.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1554 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06-24-16


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

