CHIEF OF OPERATIONS

Class Code:       7258
Open Date:  04-20-18
                                                                                                                                                             Revised: 05-03-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$90,473 to $132,274 and $95,463 to $139,582

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Chief of Operations supervises or assists in supervising a group of employees engaged in directing the airfield activities or managing passenger and cargo terminals at a Los Angeles World Airports' facility; and applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Three years of full-time paid experience as an Airport Superintendent of Operations III with the City of Los Angeles; or	
2. Three years of full-time paid supervisory experience at a medium or large hub airport as defined by the Federal Aviation Administration, or equivalent military experience developing and implementing programs in airport operational planning, emergency and incident management, or safety management systems.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Chief of Operations Training and Experience Questionnaire and Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Chief of Operations Training and Experience Questionnaire and Qualifications Questionnaire are located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete both Questionnaires will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects  three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. A Master's degree in Aviation and/or designation as an Accredited Airport Executive is highly desired. 
5. Experience in developing and implementing programs in customer service or training and development is highly desirable.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted online. When you are viewing the online job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. Online job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications, Training and Experience Questionnaires and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 10, 2018.



In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Chief of Operations may be evaluated based on the candidate's responses to the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Chief of Operations based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 and qualifications review as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
                                      Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire and an Interview. In the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire candidates may be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background and personal qualifications, including knowledge of: principles and procedures involved in the operations of a medium or large hub commercial airport; Federal rules and regulations regarding airport operations; airline procedures;  safety requirements of a medium or large hub commercial airport, including Incident Command Systems and procedures sufficient to manage airport incidents and events; supervisory principles and practices such as directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending, and evaluating subordinates' work; and the ability to develop airport rules and enforce operating regulations, rules and procedures; respond and direct personnel during a crisis situation at an airport; supervise airport personnel; direct and coordinate the work of groups of employees engaged in airport operations; communicate in writing in a clear, concise and effective manner sufficient to prepare a variety of narrative, standard and custom reports; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

The qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications as described on the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the expert review panel.

Passing Score for Qualifying Test

The passing score for the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying test is administered.  Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire in order to be invited to the interview. 

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's work experience and professional development as they have provided the background necessary to perform the duties of a Chief of Operations, including knowledge of: principles, procedures, and aviation terminology involved in the operations of a medium or large hub commercial airport; Federal rules and regulations regarding airport operations; airline procedures; safety requirements of a medium or large hub commercial airport; Incident Command Systems and procedures sufficient to manage airport incidents and events; principles and practices of public administration, including personnel management; supervisory principles and practices such as directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, commending, and evaluating subordinates' work; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity Policies as they apply to subordinate personnel; and the ability to supervise airport personnel, including directing and coordinating the work of group of employees engaged in airport operations; respond and direct personnel during a crisis situation at an airport; develop safety programs, standards, and practices; develop airport rules and enforce operating regulations, rules, and procedures; direct investigations, conduct studies, and prepare reports relating to airport operations; review and analyze historical, archived, and statistical data to identify operational trends, prepare reports, anticipate and prepare for events and emergencies; use basic technology and computer software including Internet and e-mail; develop and conduct training for subordinate employees and outside stakeholders; develop and conduct presentations effectively; communicate, both orally and in writing, on a one-to-one or group basis in a clear, concise and effective manner sufficient to  persuade, obtain  and provide information, or explain policies, procedures or regulations; deal tactfully and effectively with the public, officials, tenants, employees, and others sufficient to solve problems using appropriate conflict resolution skills; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities. 

The Qualifications Questionnaire will not be separately scored, but will be considered by the interview board in evaluating each candidate's qualifications. Candidates may expect the panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time and location of the interviews, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated interviews will begin during the period of JULY 23, 2018 to AUGUST 3, 2018.  

NOTES:

1. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated in this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required in the interview portion of the examination to be placed on the eligible list.
5. Promotional candidates will accrue seniority credits at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those City classes which provide qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of the candidates.
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
7. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
8. In conjunction with Civil Services Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

Class Code 7258 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  04-20-18 REV 05-03-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

