CHIEF MANAGEMENT ANALYST

Class Code:       9182
Open Date:  02-09-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$123,667 to $179,944

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Chief Management Analyst directs and manages the work of a large staff of professional, technical, paraprofessional, and clerical employees providing a variety of administrative or support services for a City department or bureau; plans and organizes the work of employees engaged in budgeting, accounting, financial management, management information services, grants administration, and/or personnel administration; provides management activities and services for other departmental programs as necessary; applies sound supervisory and management techniques in building and maintaining an effective workforce; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.
 
REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid professional experience in a position at the level of a Senior Management Analyst II, Senior Personnel Analyst II, or Senior Administrative Analyst II, which provides professional experience in general and financial administration, administrative or legislative analysis and research, budgetary analysis and control, or personnel administration.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as a DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.




APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be submitted on-line by THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2018.
       
SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualification, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of an evaluation of training and experience, wherein candidates may be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background and personal qualifications, as they have provided the necessary skills and knowledge of: City Charter and City ordinances, rules, procedures, and policies, including personnel practices; budget, financial, personnel, grant, and contract administration; principles, practices, methods, and techniques of public administration, administrative and legislative analysis, and management; work measurement techniques and applications; supervisory and management principles and practices such as training, instructing, evaluating, counseling, disciplining, and motivating subordinate personnel including Equal Employment Opportunity; the ability to: plan, organize, direct, control, and evaluate a variety of administrative, management, accounting, and personnel activities and programs in a City agency; identify opportunities for improvement and provide solutions; establish and maintain a work environment to enhance both employee morale and productivity; prepare and present written reports and recommendations; communicate effectively; deal tactfully with management, subordinates, and others involved in the administrative activities of the City; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Training and Experience Questionnaires of all candidates will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation.  The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications as described on the candidate's Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the expert review panel.

The Training and Experience Questionnaire will be administered online. Candidates invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps needed to complete the online Training and Experience Questionnaire. Candidates will be required to complete the online Training and Experience Questionnaire on SATURDAY, MARCH 31, 2018. Additional instructions will be sent via e-mail.

NOTES:

1. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
2. Candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those City classes which provide qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of the candidates.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.


THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, disability, gender identity, gender expression, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  

Class Code 9182 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 02-09-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to:  http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


