CHIEF INSPECTOR
                                                                                                     Class Code:       4254
                                                                                                     Open Date:  08-25-17
 (Exam Open to Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY
 
$106,050 to $150,879

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Chief Inspector plans, organizes, and directs the operation of a Division in the Department of Building and Safety or Housing, involved in construction inspection or code enforcement functions for new and existing commercial, industrial and residential buildings, their additions, appendages, accessory structures, and sites, including land use.  The purpose of these Divisions is to ensure that construction, alteration and maintenance of the above structures and sites conform to the full range of applicable codes, ordinances, laws, specifications, standards, approved building plans and grading and zoning ordinances.  These activities cover all types and stages of construction and maintenance for projects involving the inspection of building, electrical, plumbing, heating, ventilating, air conditioning, elevators, pressure vessels, and accessibility or grading.  A Chief Inspector uses sound managerial and supervisory principles and techniques to build and maintain an effective workforce; oversees the training of subordinate inspectors; carries out responsible high-level staff functions as assigned, and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Principal Inspector; or
2. Four years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Senior Building Inspector, Senior Building Mechanical Inspector, Senior Electrical Inspector, Senior Heating and Refrigeration Inspector, Senior Plumbing Inspector, Senior Safety Engineer Elevators, Senior Fire Sprinkler Inspector, Senior Safety Engineer Pressure Vessels, or Senior Housing Inspector.

PROCESS NOTES 

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). A Chief Inspector will be required to furnish an automobile, properly insured for use in City service. 
WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted online. When you are viewing the online job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. Online job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2017.



SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:   Essay  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
				Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%


The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and personal qualifications as they demonstrate the knowledge of: various codes used by the Departments of Building and Safety or Housing Department; standards of good construction, materials, practices and procedures, and applicable City codes, ordinances and laws; management and supervisory principles and practices, to include equal employment opportunity responsibilities; techniques for evaluating Division and employee performance; procedure for handling grievances; administrative regulations, adjudications, and opinions relating to inspection activities and enforcement problems; effective safety principles and practices; and personal computer use; ability to: read and interpret building plans and specifications and interpret and apply pertinent building regulations and accepted standards; use good judgment in the application of codes and laws, and deal tactfully and effectively with the public, and others in securing compliance; investigate construction and/or code enforcement problems; make difficult interpretations of the law, and fair and equitable decisions where legal requirements are involved; direct the activities of an inspection and enforcement program through subordinates who supervise employees engaged in inspecting new and existing commercial, industrial and residential structures; establish and maintain a work environment enhancing employee morale and productivity; complete assignments from general instructions and goals; communicate and deal tactfully, persuasively, and effectively with City employees, elected officials, other agencies, and the public; effectively mediate differences between the Department and customers; prepare and present oral and written reports and recommendations clearly, concisely, and accurately; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

At the time of the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material on a topic related to the duties of a Chief Inspector. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate's qualifications. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory writing session may be disqualified. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their writing exercise responses. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of OCTOBER 30, 2017 to NOVEMBER 10, 2017. 


NOTES:
	
1. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
2. Candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those classes which provide qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of those candidates.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications as stated on this bulletin.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.


THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 4254 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08-25-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

