



CHIEF AIRPORTS ENGINEER
Class Code:       7274
Open Date:  05-15-15
                                                                     (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$117,972 to $146,577; and $138,288 to $171,821

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Chief Airports Engineer plans, organizes and directs the work of employees engaged in performing all engineering work in the Los Angeles World Airports; develops overall engineering plans and specifications and assists management in developing general plans and policies for the Los Angeles World Airports; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Four years of full-time paid professional engineering experience in a class at the level of Civil Engineer in the design of airports rated as medium or large hub airports; or
2. Three years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as an Airport Engineer; or
3. Two years of full-time paid professional engineering experience in a class at the level of Senior Civil Engineer; or
4. One year of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Senior Airport Engineer; or 
5. One year of full-time paid engineering experience as a Project Manager III with the City of Los Angeles which provides for the appropriate bonus and experience in planning, directing, and controlling the activities of airports-related engineering projects and programs.

NOTES:


1. In addition to the regular City application, each applicant is required to submit the Chief Airports Engineer Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Chief Airports Engineer Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Registration as a Civil Engineer with the California State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers is required prior to appointment.
3. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon to file online. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2015.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from May 15, 2015 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW
Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Chief Airports Engineer may be evaluated based on the candidate's responses to the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Chief Airports Engineer based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
                                     Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidate's professional and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's experience and training as it relates to the candidates' knowledge of: the development and maintenance objectives of the Department of Airports as it relates to long range plans and scheduling of engineering staff; new developments in aviation technology; sources of airport funding; airport facility and equipment requirements; technical terminology and abbreviations used in airport design and construction; methods and materials used in the construction and maintenance of airport facilities; sources and availability of information related to airport engineering, operations, planning, design, and construction sufficient to help others find these resources; community sound abatement procedures; principles and practices of civil, mechanical, electrical, and structural engineering sufficient to direct and evaluate staff engaged in airport design; safety regulations including OSHA and FAA requirements; principles and practices of supervision, including directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending, and evaluating the work of subordinates; general Equal Employment Opportunity principles and practices; and the ability to direct and coordinate the work of groups of employees engaged in a variety of engineering activities; analyze complex reports, laws, and statistical data related to airport planning; review proposals and cost estimates; read and interpret technical material; prepare and interpret airport layout plans; define the goals and objectives of an engineering project; plan and organize multiple engineering projects simultaneously; develop innovative solutions; estimate time, personnel and materials needed for engineering projects; communicate both orally and in writing in a clear, persuasive, tactful and effective manner to employees, management, and the public; deal tactfully and effectively with others; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

At the time of the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material on a topic related to the duties and responsibilities of a Chief Airports Engineer.  This material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate.  Candidates who fail to complete the advisory writing exercise may be disqualified.  Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their response.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JULY 20, 2015 to JULY 31, 2015.  

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a content validation study.
2. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
3. Appointments to this class are subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 109 of the City Charter.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
6. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
8. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that minimum qualifications have been met.
9. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.

Notice:  If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position. 
THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
 OPEN COMPETITIVE AND AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Code No. 7274. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05-15-15


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

