CIVIL ENGINEERING ASSOCIATE    
Class Code:       7246
Open Date:  06-16-17
 (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$66,231 to $94,252; $74,082 to $105,444; $82,496 to $117,345; and $89,637 to $127,555
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $78,905 to $98,031; $93,772 to $116,489; $101,685 to $126,365; and $109,327 to $135,824

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Civil Engineering Associate performs professional civil engineering work in researching, checking, computing, conducting field work needed, and working with consultants in the preparation of plans, designs, details, specifications, cost estimates, environmental documentation, and various reports for the construction, maintenance, and operation of a wide variety of civil engineering projects; processes private development plans and development actions; issues engineering permits to the public; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. A Bachelor's or Master's degree in engineering from an accredited college or university, which includes at least 24 semester units or 36 quarter units of core courses in civil engineering; or
2. Certification as an Engineer-In-Training recognized by the State of California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists; or
3. Registration as a Professional Engineer with the State of California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application all applicants must complete the Civil Engineering Associate Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Civil Engineering Associate Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions of the City Application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed.
2. You may take the Civil Engineering Associate interview only once every 365 days from the date you were last added to the eligible list. If you have taken the Civil Engineering Associate interview in a campus environment with any City of Los Angeles department or LADWP, a special recruitment event, or during an open filing period in the Personnel Department within the last 12 months, you may not file for this examination at this time. 
3. Applicants who are within six months of graduation from an accredited college or university may apply.  However, you cannot be appointed until you have completed all your course work including the 24 semester units or 36 quarter units described in Requirement No. 1.  
4. Applicants qualifying under Requirement #1 must provide the following information on their City application.  Applicants who fail to provide the information will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
a. List their school name and location, type of degree earned and major in the Education Section of the online application; and
b. Applicants that have completed core courses in civil engineering as stated in the Requirement, must list the course titles with the number of semester or quarter units, school attended and completion dates in the Supplemental Questions Section of the online application.
5. Applicants filing under Requirement No. 2 or No. 3 must list their Engineer-in-Training (EIT) certification number or Professional Engineer (PE) license number in the Supplemental Questions Section of the on-line application at the time of filing. Applicants who fail to provide their EIT certification number or PE License number will not be considered further in this examination.
6. Appointments will be made to temporary training positions in accordance with Section 5.30 of the Rules of the Board of Civil Service Commissioners for a maximum duration of three years.  In order to successfully complete the temporary training period, new appointees must obtain their Engineer-In-Training (EIT) Certificate within three years.  New appointees who do not successfully complete the temporary training period will be terminated from the class.
7. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
8. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
9. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.
          
WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires will only be accepted on-line at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations from 8:00 a.m. TUESDAY, JUNE 27, 2017 to 11:59 p.m., THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 2017. Applications submitted before the start of the filing period will not be accepted. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.
    
NOTE:


Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires will only be accepted on-line at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations from 8:00 a.m. TUESDAY, JUNE 27, 2017 to 11:59 p.m., THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 2017. Applications submitted before the start of the filing period will not be accepted. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.
   
NOTE:


Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires will only be accepted on-line on the following three days: From 8:00 a.m. TUESDAY, JUNE 27, 2017 to 11:59 p.m., THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from June 27, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Civil Engineering Associate may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Civil Engineering Associate based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 and qualifications review as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

Your examination score will be based entirely on an evaluation of your professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's experience, training, education and personal qualifications as they have provided the background necessary to perform the duties of a Civil Engineering Associate, including the knowledge of: civil engineering concepts and fundamental principles and practices; structural design principles, including factors to consider for site development; properties of construction materials, including testing methodologies; hydrology for estimating water supply and hydraulics, including open channel flow, pressure flows, pumps, weirs, flumes, aqueducts and model studies; soils mechanics and properties; surveying principles, including transverses, field notes, field investigations, and measurements; engineering economics, including construction costs, budgeting, time estimates, and scheduling; physics concepts applicable to mechanics, motion, energy and fluid flow; mathematical computations including algebra, geometry, trigonometry, calculus, and statistics; and the ability to: prepare cost estimates and feasibility studies for engineering projects; obtain and account for construction costs; prepare and check or review plans and specifications for engineering projects; communicate effectively, both orally and in writing; deal tactfully and effectively with others; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

As part of their evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. The Qualifications Questionnaire will not be separately scored but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate's qualifications. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the interview panel.

The Civil Engineering Associate and the Structural Engineering Associate interviews may contain common test questions and will be administered concurrently. 

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of AUGUST 21, 2017 TO SEPTEMBER 1, 2017.  

NOTES:

1. This examination is based validation study.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code:  7246 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06-16-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

