COMMERCIAL FIELD REPRESENTATIVE

Class Code:       1600
Open Date:  12-07-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$68,027 to $84,543 and $69,843 to $86,798

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Commercial Field Representative reads electric and water meters; explains service requirements and procedures to customers; connects and disconnects water and electric services, enters data into handheld devices; reports field irregularities; resolves customer complaints; makes field collections of utility bills; monitors and dispatches service orders to field personnel; inspects and analyzes field conditions to evaluate illegal use of services and performs related office and field duties as required.

Commercial Field Representatives work outdoors in all types of weather and conditions. In addition, Commercial Field Representatives will be required to operate a vehicle in a safe manner and may work overtime including weekends and late evenings as needed.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Meter Reader or as a Customer Service Representative with the City of Los Angeles, Department of Water and Power; or
2. Two-years of full-time paid experience in a class at the level of Senior Administrative Clerk with the City of Los Angeles, Department of Water and Power performing work in conjunction with electric and water services billing, applications for service, deposits, or collections; and working directly with the public on water and electric service requirements, procedures, and related inquiries. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE: 

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, DECEMBER 20, 2018.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Multiple-choice Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
           Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying multiple-choice test and an interview. The qualifying multiple-choice test will consist of questions administered and proctored on-line. In the on-line multiple-choice test, the following competencies may be evaluated: safety focus; customer service, and job knowledge, including knowledge of: Department of Water and Power rules and regulations governing electric and water services including those related to billing procedures, applications, deposits, and illegal use of services sufficient to provide information to customers; electric and water appropriate billing units; various types of electric meters including single phase, three phase, demand, built up, Radio Frequency and time of use meters; various types of water meters including positive displacement, compound, and Radio Frequency (RF) meters; electric meter number codes sufficient to identify meter types; and street maps sufficient to locate field calls; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

The multiple-choice test will be proctored and administered on-line during a single session. Candidates invited to participate in the on-line multiple-choice test will be able to take the test from any location using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the dates and specific steps on how to take the multiple-choice test on-line. It is anticipated that the remote proctored multiple-choice test will be administered between TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2019 and TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2019. Candidates who do not complete and submit the remote proctored multiple-choice test on-line using a computer by the specified date and time will not be considered further in this examination.

Passing Score for Qualifying Multiple-Choice Test

The passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice test may be set either above or below 70%.

Additional job analysis information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Commercial Field Representative. FAQs for on-line testing are available at http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess. Candidates who do not have the required equipment may have the option to take the multiple-choice test onsite at a City facility.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying multiple-choice test and meet minimum qualifications in order to be scheduled for the interview. The examination score will be based entirely on the interview.

In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: judgment and decision making; safety focus; composure; customer service; and job knowledge, including knowledge of: Department of Water and Power rules and regulations governing electric and water services including those related to billing procedures, applications, deposits, and illegal use of services sufficient to provide information to customers; various types of electric meters including single phase, three phase, demand, built up, Radio Frequency and time of use meters; various types of water meters including positive displacement, compound, and Radio Frequency (RF) meters; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. 

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the multiple-choice test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate. 
5. A final average score of 70% on the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1600 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12-07-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

