COMMUNICATIONS CABLE SUPERVISOR

Class Code:       3800
Open Date:  05-19-17
Revised: 06-01-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$72,745 to $87,988; $77,401 to $93,584; and $81,912 to $99,054
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $115,570 to $122,022.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Communications Cable Supervisor assigns, reviews and evaluates the work of Senior Communications Cable Workers, Communications Cable Workers, and Assistant Communications Cable Workers engaged in the performance of a variety of skilled work in the installation, splicing, termination, maintenance, changing, removal, location of trouble, and repair of outside plant and inside plant overhead and underground fiber optic and paired copper communications cables, lines, and appurtenant equipment including the telephone, data, alarm, carrier, supervisory, telemetry, and control circuits contained within these cables and lines; trains subordinate employees; enforces equal employment opportunity and safety policies; works closely with engineering and other work groups involved with design, equipment, materials, methods and procedures; and maintenance of a communications system.

REQUIREMENT/ MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid experience as a Communications Cable Worker or in a class which is at that level, in the construction, installation, maintenance, and repair of overhead and underground fiber optic cables, lead or plastic sheathed twisted pair communications type of cables of at least 12 pairs, telephone and control lines, and appurtenant equipment containing telephone, data, alarm, carrier, supervisory, telemetry, and control circuits.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete a Communications Cable Supervisor Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Communications Cable Supervisor Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Communications Cable Supervisor Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Candidates must have experience in all of the required duties and equipment to qualify for this exam.
3. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
4. Candidates must have good color vision.
5. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months  reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
6. Some positions may require a valid California Class I or Class A driver's license and valid medical certificate prior to appointment.  Applicants must submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1801.1.  Applicants may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of experience and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on candidates' knowledge of: electrical theory for communication line maintenance; components of communications circuits and associated equipment; various testing instruments and equipment; procedures for handling cable reels and feeding cable, pulling cable in overhead runs, underground and overhead lines, and splicing cable; various types of hand tools, portable power tools, and heavy equipment; safety procedures pertinent to working on overhead and underground lines; safety equipment, emergency equipment and first aid procedures; steps for getting and removing clearances and "OK TO's"; work area traffic control requirements; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including directing, assigning, motivating, training, providing feedback, demonstrating approachability, disciplining, commending and evaluating the work of subordinate personnel; Equal Employment Opportunity policies and MOU provisions as they relate to subordinate personnel; and the ability to interpret wiring diagrams, schematics, and various City and State codes and regulations; estimate materials and amount of time needed to complete various jobs; plan, coordinate, and prioritize the work assignments of a group of employees; communicate orally sufficient to effectively provide and obtain information; interact tactfully and effectively with others sufficient to discuss problems and possible solutions; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

As part of the evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will also consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview panel.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JULY 10, 2017 to JULY 21, 2017.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
 ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3800 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .05-19-17 REV 06-01-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

