COMMUNICATIONS CABLE WORKER
Class Code:       3802
Open Date:  11-18-16
				                  (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$58,401 to $85,420
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is flat-rated at $99,639.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Communications Cable Worker does skilled electrical work in the installation, splicing, termination, maintenance, changing, removal, location of trouble, and repair of outside and inside plant overhead and underground fiber optic and paired copper communications cables, lines, and appurtenant equipment including the telephone, data, alarm, carrier, supervisory, telemetry, and control circuits contained within these cables and lines.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICAITON

Two years of full-time paid experience as a helper to a journey-level electrical worker in the construction, installation, maintenance, and repair of fiber optic and lead or plastic sheathed communications type cables and control lines containing control, telemetering or telephone circuits.

Successful completion of 30 semester or 45 quarter units in electricity or electronics at an accredited trade school or college may be substituted for up to one year of the required experience.  

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California Driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the past 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).  
3. Applicants wishing to substitute education for experience must list their school name and location, appropriate course titles, their respective number of semester or quarter units, and completion dates for each course claimed as qualifying in the text box which will appear in the Supplemental Questions section of the on-line application. 
4. Some positions may require a valid California Class A driver's license and valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles, within 6 months after appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
5. Communications Cable Workers are required to climb unstepped poles and work in vaults and maintenance holes in the proximity of high voltage and are subject to the hazards of such work.
6. Candidates must be capable of using and interpreting fiber optic and electric test and fault locating equipment as applied to supervisory, control, carrier data acquisition, telemetering, telephone and other communication circuits.
7. Candidates must have good color vision.
8. A valid equipment operator's license for operating a Stinger Crane may be required for some positions after appointment. 
9. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
10. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree and coursework.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter if you apply on-line.



APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, DECEMBER  1, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from November 18, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written Test. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying
                                      Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination for Communications Cable Worker will consist of a qualifying written test and an interview.  In the written test, which will consist of multiple choice questions, the following competencies may be evaluated: mechanical aptitude; teamwork; follow written directions; safety focus including knowledge of: safety procedures necessary to follow when working in a field location; proper personal protective equipment; electrical aptitude including knowledge of: principles and theories of electricity; and job knowledge including knowledge of: rigging techniques; appurtenant devices and hand and power tools; the wiring color code used when working with communications equipment and/or electrical systems; repair techniques used on cables, open wires and guy wires; the methods for pulling cable through underground conduits or overhead cable installation; the methods and materials used to terminate cables; how to interpret graphs with parameters found through testing equipment; fiber optic cable bend radiuses; test equipment used to troubleshoot fiber optic cables to ensure they are not contaminated or damaged; multi and single mode fiber cables; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

The qualifying written test will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2017, in Los Angeles. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test.

Passing Score for Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written may be set either above or below 70%. 

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying written test in order to be called for the interview. The examination score will be based entirely on the interview.

In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: self-management; mechanical aptitude; teamwork; follow oral directions; safety focus including knowledge of: safety procedures necessary to follow when working in a field location; electrical aptitude including knowledge of: principles and theories of electricity; and job knowledge including knowledge of; appurtenant devices and hand and power tools; repair techniques used on cables, open wires and guy wires; the methods for pulling cable through underground conduits or overhead cable installation; the methods, and materials used to terminate cables; fiber optic cable bend radiuses; test equipment used to troubleshoot fiber optic cables to ensure they are not contaminated or damaged; multi and single mode fiber cables; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Communications Cable Worker.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4.  Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
7. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.  

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 3802 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-18-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

