COMMUNICATIONS ENGINEERING ASSOCIATE
	
			                      Class Code:      7607
                                                                                                                               Open Date: 08-10-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$66,231 to $96,841; $74,082 to $108,346; $82,496 to $120,582; and $89,637 to $131,063

NOTES:
		
1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Communications Engineering Associate performs professional communications engineering work in the preparation of plans, designs, specifications, estimates, studies, reports, and cost and service analyses for the City's communications systems; gives technical direction in the construction, installation, maintenance, and operation of Local Area Network (LAN), Wide Area Network (WAN), other communications systems and equipment such as security systems, IT cable infrastructure, radio, audio/video, telephone, microwave; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a major in engineering, which includes at least 24 semester units or 36 quarter units of communications engineering or electrical engineering courses; or
2. Possession of a valid Engineer-in-Training Certificate (EIT) recognized by the California State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application form, each applicant is required to submit the Communications Engineering Associate Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Communications Engineering Associate Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who are within six months of graduation from an accredited college or university may apply. However, you cannot be appointed until you have completed all your course work, including the 24 semester units or 36 quarter units described in Requirement #1. 
3. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
4. Appointments to the class of Communications Engineering Associate, Code 7607, will be made to temporary training positions in accordance with Section 5.30 of the Rules of the Board of Civil Service Commissioners, for a maximum duration of three years. In order to successfully complete the temporary training period, new appointees must obtain their Engineer-in-Training (EIT) Certificate within three years. New appointees who do not successfully complete the temporary training period will be terminated from the class.
5. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
6. Applications and supplements, which clearly indicate that applicants do not meet the above requirements, will not be accepted. General employment resumes will not meet the requirements.
7. Applicants qualifying under Requirement #2 must list their Engineer-In-Training (EIT) certification number in the Supplemental Questions section of the on-line application at the time of filing. Applicants who fail to provide their EIT certification number will not be considered further in this examination. 
8. Applicants qualifying under Requirement #1 must list their school name and location, type of degree earned, major and completion dates in the Education section of the application. Applicants must also list the course titles of their communications engineering or electrical engineering courses with the number of semester or quarter units and completion dates in the Supplemental Questions section of the on-line application. Applicants who fail to provide this information on their application will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed. 

WHERE TO APPLY


Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, AUGUST 23, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs, which may be based on the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW 

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Communications Engineering Associate may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Communications Engineering Associate, based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review, will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and professional development as they have provided knowledge of: basic principles in the field of communications or electrical engineering; design analysis and communications installation techniques; information technology, and communications systems, infrastructure, facilities and equipment; developments in the telecommunications engineering and IT field including technological enhancements; FCC rules and regulations as they apply to local governments and public safety systems; mathematical formulas applicable to the analysis of intermodulation, radio interference, and propagation; principles of computer software programming; and the ability to analyze and evaluate communications or IT systems including, proposals, parts specifications, and studies in order to determine feasibility, cost-effectiveness, and long-term impact; research, formulate, and make recommendations pertaining to communications issues; collect and organize communications data in order to make recommendations, prepare standards, or respond to inquiries and resolve complaints; analyze test equipment results and diagnostic data in order to monitor the operating efficiency and maintenance needs of a communications system; coordinate the work activities of public and private installers; write technical reports and procedures for both technical and non-technical personnel in order to support findings or explain information; work effectively with the public, co-workers, supervisors, City employees, and representatives from other governmental agencies; communicate clearly and effectively with non-technical personnel in order to obtain and explain communications-related information; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of OCTOBER 8, 2018 to OCTOBER 19, 2018.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications accepted are subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% in the examination is needed in order to be placed on the eligible list.
4. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

Class Code 7607. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .08-10-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


Class Code 7607. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08-10-18

