COMPLIANCE PROGRAM MANAGER 

Class Code:       9165
Open Date:  11-16-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$90,640 to $132,546 and $113,211 to $165,515

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Compliance Program Manager plans, organizes and directs the work of a large staff of professional, paraprofessional and administrative employees in the Department of Public Works, Bureau of Contract Administration, who provide a variety of compliance services and enforcement activities, which includes reviewing contractor or business applications and bid proposals, conducting field audits and investigations, analyzing payroll records, calculating wage restitutions and penalty assessments, negotiating settlement agreements to correct violations, administering contracts with consultants to support Bureau activities, managing citywide outreach efforts, and recommending approval or denial of affirmative action plans, contract awards or penalties, and certification of businesses by applying consistent and objective criteria; applies supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective workforce; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience at the level of Senior Management Analyst developing, implementing and monitoring departmental or organization-wide programs designed to ensure compliance with labor laws, affirmative action, and business diversity policies, rules and regulations, contract and/or employer related City ordinances; or
2. Five years of full-time paid professional experience with the City of Los Angeles developing, implementing, and monitoring departmental or organization-wide programs designed to ensure compliance with labor laws, affirmative action, and business diversity policies, rules and regulations, contract and/or employer related City ordinances.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that required possession of a degree from a recognized four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2018.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
         Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on candidate's experience, training, and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of: court opinions and Federal, State, and local laws related to Equal Employment Opportunity, affirmative action, business diversity and prevailing wage requirements for contract compliance; current developments and trends in the field of Equal Employment Opportunity and affirmative action and anti-discrimination issues; current trends in the field of business diversity; principles, practices, methods, and techniques of public administration, management, organization, budgeting/financial administration, and personnel administration; effective safety principles and practices; current developments and trends in the field of labor standards, minimum wage, and paid sick leave enforcement; office management practices and procedures including: planning, delegating, and controlling the work of subordinates; techniques for training, instructing, evaluating subordinate's work performance, counseling, disciplining, and motivating subordinate personnel; procedures for grievance handling; supervisory responsibilities for Equal Employment Opportunity; memoranda of understanding as they apply to subordinate personnel; City Charter and the City's basic administrative and personnel ordinances, rules, procedures and policies; and the ability to: implement new compliance programs as mandated by ordinance or Executive Directive; work independently to plan, organize, direct, and evaluate a variety of administrative, management, and personnel activities and programs within the Division; organize, direct, and evaluate studies to obtain effective solutions to problems in organization, finance, personnel utilization, procedural analysis, and performance reporting; interpret statistical computations, charts, and diagrams; deal tactfully and effectively with employers, labor organizations and the general public; prepare and present oral and written reports and recommendations concisely, logically, and convincingly; communicate effectively both orally and in writing and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Prior to the interview, applicants will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Compliance Program Manager. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Please note that applicants must complete the advisory essay and meet minimum qualifications as stated on this bulletin in order to be considered further in the examination process.

The advisory essay will be administered on-line. Applicants invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps needed to complete the on-line advisory essay. Applicants will be required to complete the on-line advisory essay between MONDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2018 and MONDAY, DECEMBER 17, 2018. Additional instructions will be sent via e-mail. Applicants who fail to complete the advisory essay as instructed may be disqualified.

Candidates will be notified later by mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JANUARY 7, 2019 to JANUARY 18, 2019.

NOTES:

1. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
4. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 9165 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11-16-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

