CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT SERVICE WORKER

Class Code:       3541
Open Date:  01-26-18 
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$42,741 to $60,823 
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $57,148 to $71,012 and $71,075 to $75,042. 

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
4. In some positions, employees receive bonus pay for working during night hours or working under hazardous or unpleasant conditions.

DUTIES

A Construction Equipment Service Worker fuels, lubricates, cleans and performs other non-repair servicing on construction and transportation equipment in a shop or from a service truck in the field; services a wide variety of heavy duty track-laying and heavy wheeled vehicles in yards and at construction sites; or may serve as an apprentice in one of the automotive crafts.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. One year of full-time paid experience in servicing and lubricating construction vehicles exclusively; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience in servicing and lubricating a combination of ALL of the following: cars, trucks and construction vehicles.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Applicants MUST list the types of cars, trucks, and construction vehicles that you have serviced and lubricated in the Work Experience section of the application. Applicants must list this information in the free-flowing text box which will appear after the Work Experience section of the on-line application. Applicants who fail to include this information at the time of filing their application will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license prior to appointment.  Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Some positions may require a valid California Class A (and/or Class B) driver's license prior to appointment.  Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).  For positions requiring a valid California Class A and/or Class B driver's license, applicants must submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1808.1 and a valid medical certificate.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2018. 

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination.  To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements.  You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received.  Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from January 26, 2018 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

This examination will consist entirely of a multiple-choice written test. In the multiple-choice written test, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: problem identification, methods, procedures, equipment, materials, lubricants, fuels, coolants, filters, batteries, and tools used in servicing construction and transportation equipment; identification of various types of equipment components, systems and their functions; tire condition, ply ranges and tread depth; hydraulic brake systems; air brake systems; safety procedures relevant to working with construction and transportation equipment; installation and recharging of batteries; use and disposal of flammable materials, solutions, and solvents; safety precautions related to inhalation of toxic fumes; power and manually operated tools; hoist operation; State and departmental rules and procedures for reporting traffic accidents; basic arithmetic sufficient to calculate volume, fractions, and ratios; liquid measures and conversions; and the ability to read and interpret road maps; follow written instructions; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on           SATURDAY, APRIL 14, 2018, in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
7. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
8. Based on City Policy, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and/or during employment in this class.
9. California Department of Motor Vehicles Hazardous Materials and Tanker Vehicle endorsements may be required prior to completion of probation for some positions.
10. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3541 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 01-26-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


