CRIME AND INTELLIGENCE ANALYST 

Class Code:        2236
Open Date:   06-29-18
										(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$59,487 to $86,965 and $70,157 to $102,563

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Crime and Intelligence Analyst researches, compiles, analyzes, and maps crime trends and patterns; disseminates information related to criminal activity; assists patrol, investigative, and administrative staff in planning the deployment of resources for the prevention, intervention, and suppression of criminal activities; acts as liaison to all Los Angeles Police Department and neighboring law enforcement Crime Analysis Details; may act as lead analyst; and performs related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid professional experience in a class at the level of Management Assistant performing duties in researching, compiling, and analyzing crime trends and patterns in a law enforcement agency; or
2. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university and completion of a Certificate Program in Crime and Intelligence Analysis from an accredited college or university. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience or college seniors within six months of graduation may apply. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience or education requirement is met.
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 must:
a. List their school name and location, type of degree earned and major in the Education Section of the City application; and
b. Submit proof of completion of a recognized Certificate Program in Crime and Intelligence Analysis. Applicants must attach a copy of the proof of completion to the on-line application at the time of filing. The requested document(s) must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the document(s) is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the documents.
Applicants who fail to provide the information on their application as indicated in Requirement #2 will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
3. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete a Crime and Intelligence Analyst Training and Experience (T&E) Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Crime and Intelligence Analyst Training and Experience Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City Application. Applicants who fail to complete the Training and Experience Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed.
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
5. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
6. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at: http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
7. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree. Applicants who wish to expedite this process may attach a copy of their qualifying degree to their on-line application at the time of filing in the Attachments section. 


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and Crime and Intelligence Analyst Training and Experience Questionnaires WILL ONLY BE ACCEPTED ON-LINE. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Training and Experience Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, JULY 12, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants and their Training and Experience Questionnaires will be processed in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Training & Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination score will be based entirely on an evaluation of the candidate's overall qualifications. The evaluation, conducted by a panel of subject matter experts and based on job-related criteria, will consist of an assessment of the candidate's employment application, including background and training; and the information indicated on the Crime and Intelligence Analyst Training and Experience Questionnaire. The following competencies may be evaluated: Analytical Ability; Attention to Detail; Self Management; Technology Application; Interpersonal Skills; Oral Communication; Written Communication; and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: crime and intelligence techniques used in law enforcement, research methods for assessing effectiveness of Department crime reduction strategies, behavioral analysis, crime analysis techniques and applications, and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Applications and Training and Experience Questionnaires will be evaluated by an expert review committee who shall assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications and whose experience is most likely to provide them with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform the duties of a Crime and Intelligence Analyst. The review committee's evaluation will be based entirely on your qualifications as you have described them in your application and Training and Experience Questionnaire.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Crime and Intelligence Analyst.

NOTES:
 
1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Based on City policy, before being hired in one of these positions, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol-screening test.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodation to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. Candidates must pass a background investigation prior to appointment that includes a review of their employment history, criminal conviction record, habitual use of intoxicants and drugs, and any other factors that may affect the candidate's suitability for employment as a Crime and Intelligence Analyst.
6. A final score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 2236. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06-29-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

