CUSTODIAN 

				Class Code:      3156
  Open Date: 11-16-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY
 
$31,173 to $45,560 
The salary in the Los Angeles World Airports is $33,512 to $48,984
The salary in the Harbor Department is $31,549 to $46,165

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Custodian performs a variety of cleaning and janitorial tasks in City buildings. 

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Current employment with the City of Los Angeles; and
2. At least six months of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles performing duties involving cleaning and janitorial tasks in City buildings; and
3. A letter of recommendation from the personnel office of the employing department where training was received, which includes a statement of the department's willingness to hire the employee as a Custodian. The letter must be attached to the application at the time of filing.

PROCESS NOTES

1. 	Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2.	Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3.	Applicants using City of Los Angeles experience other than the City classes of Custodian and Window Cleaner must submit a Verification of Work Experience (VWE) form. The VWE form must indicate the percentage of time performing the work that is claimed as qualifying experience. The VWE form may be obtained on-line at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf.
4. 	Applicants required to submit a VWE form will have 7 calendar days from the on-line submission date to submit a copy of the form. A copy of the VWE form may be attached to the on-line application at the time of filing or delivered to the Personnel Department at 700 East Temple Street, Room 100, Los Angeles, CA 90012. Applicants who fail to submit a copy of their VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications WILL ONLY BE ACCEPTED ON THE CITY APPLICATION FORM. Applications may be obtained on our website at http://per.ci.la.ca.us/Forms/Application.pdf. 

Applications MAY ONLY be submitted to the Human Resources/Personnel Services Section of the City Department providing your letter of recommendation.


APPLICATION DEADLINE
	
For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen the following day. This examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Application Review  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%
 
The examination will consist entirely of review of candidates' City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that minimum requirements are met.  Since these reviews will be made solely on the basis of the written information contained on the candidate's City employment application, it is each candidate's responsibility to ensure that the application is complete with accurate descriptions of relevant experience.
 
NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3158. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11-16-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

