CUSTOMER SERVICE SPECIALIST

                                                                                                     Class Code:       1229
                                                                                      Open Date: 10-12-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)


ANNUAL SALARY

$50,237 to $73,476 

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Customer Service Specialist performs specialized business tax, licenses, and permits work, involving cashiering, various aspects of processing and reviewing customer requests for service, billing questions and resolutions, as well as service complaints, responding to the public's concerns and requests for information on City business tax and associated permits, Lifeline exemptions and reductions, ordinances, rules, regulations, and policies, including the use of a computer terminal for inputting requests, reviewing billing information, and following up on requests; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid call center operation or direct customer service experience, responding to customer inquiries in person, telephonically, via e-mail, or through on-line chat activities; or
2. Six months of full-time or 960 cumulative hours paid experience with the City of Los Angeles Office of Finance at the level of a Tax Renewal Assistant directly handling or providing clerical support for processing business tax billings or payments, and 
3. Completion of a four week Business Tax Ordinance class provided by the City of Los Angeles Office of Finance.
 
PROCESS NOTE

Applicants filing under Requirement #2 and #3 must submit a copy of their certificate of completion of the four-week Business Tax Ordinance class provided by the City of Los Angeles Office of Finance at the time of filing. A copy of the certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and the applicant WILL NOT be credited with submitting it. Applicants who fail to submit the certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special licenses, skills and/or training in the following areas. Only persons possessing either of the following may be considered for appointment to fill such positions. 

The ability to speak or write a language other than English. Proficiency in Spanish is required for some positions. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed below:

From 8:00 am Friday, October 12, 2018 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, October 25, 2018
From 8:00 am Friday, May 10, 2019 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, May 23, 2019
From 8:00 am Friday, November 1, 2019 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, November 14, 2019


The examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. Filing periods may change without prior notice or additional dates may be added, as needed, at a later date. For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen on the dates noted in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:   Multiple-Choice Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying
														  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying multiple-choice test and an interview. In the qualifying multiple-choice test, candidates may be examined for the knowledge of: customer service techniques; desktop computer software and office equipment; proper English usage, grammar, and vocabulary; and the ability to perform basic mathematical computations including addition, subtraction, multiplication, division and percentages; read, comprehend and apply written information; follow written directions; exercise good judgment and make sound decisions; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the qualifying multiple-choice test. The first multiple-choice test will be administered in a single half-day session in Los Angeles, on SATURDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2018. Additional test dates will be added as needed.

For future test administrations, candidates may have the option of choosing to take the multiple-choice test in-person at a City facility or on-line. Those who choose to take the multiple-choice test on-line may do so as instructed from a remote location, which may include your home or City facility, using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will be notified by e-mail if this option becomes available.

Passing Score for Qualifying Multiple-Choice Test

The passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying multiple-choice test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice test may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying multiple-choice test in order to be scheduled for the interview.

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's training and experience as they provide the candidate with the background needed to perform the duties of a Customer Service Specialist including knowledge of: customer service techniques; desktop computer software and office equipment; and the ability to communicate information, both orally and in writing, in a clear and concise manner sufficient to explain City and department policies and procedures; deal tactually and effectively with the public, other employees, and supervisors; exercise good judgment and make sound decisions; work well under pressure and handle multiple tasks and assignments simultaneously; work independently; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. As provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the multiple-choice test will not be subject to candidate review.
2. You may take the Customer Service Specialist multiple-choice test only once every 24 months under this bulletin. If you have taken the Customer Service Specialist written test during an open filing period in the Personnel Department within the last 24 months under this bulletin, you may not file for this examination at this time.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications accepted are subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion of the examination is needed in order to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
8. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
9. Your rank on the employment list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of the examination are merged onto one list.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1229 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-12-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


