DATABASE ARCHITECT

Class Code:       1470
 Open Date:  08-31-18
                                           (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$97,781 to $142,944
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $113,670 to $141,211.

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Database Architect performs technical and administrative work in the development of standards, methods, techniques, procedures, data analyses, data designs, and database implementations necessary for the productive use, integration, sharing, standardization, integrity, security, availability, maintenance and operation of the City's electronic databases and assists in the overall management of the electronic databases; installs and configures database software and related administration tools and utilities; develops and implements production scripts for database maintenance tasks; designs, develops and implements databases; enforces databases integrity; monitors and tunes database performance; tunes and optimizes SQL statements and database/system parameters; develops and conducts training; utilizes database tools to perform various types of database backups and recoveries; ensures database security and compliance with SB1386 or data privacy acts; researches current database issues and technologies; assist application developer to apply sound database technology to new application; may supervise other technical employees in the performance of this work; and performs related duties.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. A bachelor's degree from an accredited four-year college or university in information systems, software engineering, computer engineering, computer science, or a related field; AND EITHER
2. Two years of full-time paid experience installing, administering, tuning, and maintaining databases in a medium to large scale production environment in one of the following database platforms: Oracle, DB2, or SQL Server, in a position at the level of Senior Systems Analyst I, Systems Programmer I, or Programmer Analyst IV with the City of Los Angeles; OR
3. Two years of full-time paid experience as a database architect or database administrator in the information technology industry installing, administering, tuning, and maintaining medium to large scale production databases in one of the following database platforms: Oracle, DB2, or SQL Server. 

A DBA professional certification in one of the following databases may be substituted for up to one year of the required experience:
a. Oracle Database, version 10g or higher - Any operating system, Oracle Certified Professional (OCP)
b. DB2 Universal Database, version 8 or higher - Any operating system, IBM Certified Database Administrator
c. Microsoft SQL Server version 2005 or higher - Microsoft Certified Database Administrator (MCDBA)

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete a Database Architect Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Database Architect Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
5. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.
6. Applicants may substitute a DBA professional certification for up to one year of the required experience in Requirement #2 or #3. Applicants must attach proof of completion of the DBA professional certification to the on-line application at the time of filing. The requested document(s) must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the document(s) is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the documents. Applicants who fail to submit the document(s) at the time of filing by attaching it to the on-line application will not be considered further in this examination

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training. For such positions, only applicants possessing the specific professional certification(s) at the time of filing may be considered. Some positions will require a professional industry certification(s) in one or more of the following:

1. IBM Certified Database Administrator - DB2 8 or higher (Linux, UNIX, and Windows)
2. IBM Certified Database Administrator - DB2 9 or higher for z/OS
3. IBM InfoSphere DataStage Badge Essentials
4. Microsoft Certified Database Administrator (MCDBA)
5. Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate (MCSA)
6. Microsoft SQL 2016 Database Administration
7. Microsoft Certified Solutions Expert (MCSE) - Data Management and Analytics
8. Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate (MCSA) - SQL Database Administration
9. Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate(MCSA): Data Engineering with Azure
10. Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate (MSCA): SQL 2016 BI Development or more recent
11. Oracle 10g Administrator Certified Associate (OCA) or higher
12. Oracle 10g Administrator Certified Master (OCM) or higher
13. Oracle 10g Administrator Certified Professional (OCP) or higher
14. Oracle Data Integrator 11g or 12c (or higher) Certified Implementation Specialist
15. Oracle E-Business Suite R12
16. PowerCenter Data Integration 10 or higher: Administrator, Specialist Certification
17. PowerCenter Data Integration 10 or higher: Developer, Specialist Certification

Applicants must attach a copy of the certificate(s) to the on-line application at the time of filing. The certificate(s) must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate(s) is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the certificate(s). Applicants who fail to submit the certificate(s) at the time of filing by not attaching it to the on-line application will not be considered for this part of selective certification.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Database Architect may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Database Architect based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Written Test. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying
                                      Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying written test and interview. In the qualifying written test, the following competencies may be evaluated: analytical ability, attention to detail, and job knowledge, including knowledge of high-availability, high-performance, and disaster recovery databases sufficient to design, implement, and manage databases; database principles and management systems such as Oracle, SQL Server, and DB2 sufficient to design and implement databases, and provide training and consulting services; programming languages such as SQL, Unix Scripts, and Windows Command Scripts; database management technology with emphasis on performance trade-offs, data structures, and relative strengths and weaknesses of the database management system; software tools and technologies used to move or replicate data between databases in one platform or heterogeneous database platforms; database tuning sufficient to optimize the performance of databases, including control systems software and native or third-party tools; database management schemas such as normalized and de-normalized structures; general systems, including systems design theory and methods, and dataflow sufficient to determine database requirements, and understand, analyze, and develop applications; general query and transaction processing concepts; metadata repository concepts and requirements; database design principles and conceptual modeling techniques in order to support OLTP data warehousing and analytic systems; internal systems components sufficient to fulfill external system design requirements; arrangement of data on electronic storage media, including data distribution on database performance and recovery, sufficient to ensure maximum storage accessibility; capabilities of large and midrange computers in order to determine the device required to perform a task; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.
 
Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Database Architect. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2018, in Los Angeles.

Passing Score for the Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

All candidates who achieve a passing score on the qualifying multiple-choice written test will be invited to participate in the interview. 

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: judgment and decision making; analytical ability; attention to detail; initiative; innovation; responsiveness and follow-up; teamwork; and job knowledge. Job knowledge areas may include knowledge of database principles and management systems such as Oracle, SQL Server, and DB2 sufficient to design and implement databases, and provide training and consulting services; database management technology with emphasis on performance trade-offs, data structures, and relative strengths and weaknesses of the database management system; software tools and technologies used to move or replicate data between databases in one platform or heterogeneous database platforms; database tuning sufficient to optimize the performance of databases, including control systems software and native or third-party tools; general systems, including systems design theory and methods, and dataflow sufficient to determine database requirements, and understand, analyze, and develop applications; general query and transaction processing concepts; database design principles and conceptual modeling techniques in order to support OLTP data warehousing and analytic systems; internal systems components sufficient to fulfill external system design requirements; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

As part of their evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will also consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Candidates may expect panel members to discuss this information during the interviews. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the interview panel.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a job analysis and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
7. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.


Class Code 1470 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08-31-18


Class Code 1470 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08-31-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

Class Code 1470 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08-31-18

