DIRECTOR OF FIELD OPERATIONS         
       		
                                                                                                                      Class Code:       4321
                                                                                                                       Open Date:  04-06-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
											
ANNUAL SALARY

$101,831 to $148,853

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

The Director of Field Operations plans, directs, and coordinates the activities of the Animal Care and/or Enforcement Division of the Department of Animal Services, including enforcement of animal regulation laws, supervision of animal control services, field licensing, and district animal shelter operation; performs related administrative, personnel, and budgetary duties; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; and applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Three years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Senior Animal Control Officer; or
2. Five years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as an Animal Care Technician Supervisor; or
3. Three years of full-time paid experience supervising staff engaged in enforcing laws and regulations, or ordinances for a public agency, or enforcing animal regulations; or
4. Three years of full-time paid experience managing an animal shelter.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete a Director of Field Operations Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Director of Field Operations Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City Application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
3. A valid California driver's license is required prior to appointment. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a majority moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be completed at the time of filling for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL 19, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from April 6, 2018 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of candidates file for this examination, an expert review committee may be assembled to evaluate each candidate's qualifications for the job of Director of Field Operations. In this evaluation, the expert review committee will consider the information in both the candidates' City employment applications and their Qualifications Questionnaires. Those candidates considered by the expert review committee as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the job of Director of Field Operations, based solely on the information presented to the committee, will be invited to the interview.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and professional development as they provide the knowledge of: habits, care, food, exercise and shelter requirements of various domestic and wildlife animals; equipment and methods of wildlife abatement and control; common infectious and contagious diseases of animals; methods used to clean and/or disinfect shelters; safety principles, practices, and regulations; operations of district shelters; Animal Data Management Information System; City and State laws, references, ordinances, codes, and regulations relating to keeping, licensing, care, and control of animals; supervisory principles and practices, including City and Personnel Department rules and Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO); and the ability to: plan routine staff work for the District; effectively communicate technical and non-technical information verbally; read materials about animal control and/or care sufficient to use the information for effective performance; read, understand, and interpret laws, ordinances, and related to animal care and/or control; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

As part of their evaluation of each candidate's overall job qualifications, the interview board will consider the information in the candidates' Qualifications Questionnaire. Candidates may expect the interviewers to discuss this information during the interviews. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the interview panel.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interviews, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JULY 9, 2018 to JULY 20, 2018.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
7. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
8. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required timeframe; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 4321 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04-06-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

