DIRECTOR OF SECURITY SERVICES
                                                                                                    Class Code:      3208
Open Date: 04-07-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$101,643 to $126,282

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.


DUTIES

A Director of Security Services plans, organizes, directs and coordinates the work of employees engaged in security and investigations at Department facilities located inside and/or outside of the City of Los Angeles; may be required to develop and implement security procedures for a wide variety of buildings, facilities, conduct vulnerability assessments of critical facilities; ensure compliance with North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) regulations, liaise with local, state, federal law enforcement and other government agencies, provide training related to terrorism and criminal activity; applies supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

NOTE: 

Positions in this class require irregular working schedules and being on call for emergencies.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Four years of full-time paid experience in a position at the level of Principal Security Officer with the City of Los Angeles, which provides experience in directing security protection activities through subordinate supervisors, including reviewing or conducting investigations; or
2. Four years of full-time paid experience as a watch commander or higher in supervising, through subordinate supervisors, patrol or felony investigation operations in a police or sheriff's department serving a population of at least 25,000 (2010 census); or 
3. Four years of full-time paid experience as a 2nd level supervisor of felony investigations in a state or Federal law enforcement agency.

PROCESS NOTES
	
1. In addition to the regular City application form, each applicant is required to complete the Director of Security Services Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Director of Security Services Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Question Section of the on-line City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement has been completed.
3. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
4. A bachelor's degree from an accredited four-year college or university is desired.  Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency.  A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and the Director of Security Services Qualifications Questionnaire will ONLY be accepted ON-LINE.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and the Director of Security Services Qualifications Questionnaire must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 2017.  

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of personal and professional qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's background, experience, training, and personal qualifications. The following competencies may be evaluated: Fact Finding; Teamwork; Emotional Maturity; Leadership, including supervising principles related to personnel, employee relations, and Equal Employment Opportunity issues; Strategic Planning; Oral Communication; Written Communication; and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: security principles and methods of operation, laws and regulations governing the security field, technological advances in the security field, safety rules and procedures, and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.  In addition, the interview panel will consider the information provided in the Qualifications Questionnaire.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Director of Security Services.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the exact date, time, and location of their interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interviews will be held during the period JUNE 12, 2017 THROUGH JUNE 23, 2017. 

APPOINTMENT:

Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011(a) of the Los Angeles City Charter.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a content validation study. 
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 days of the submittal of the City application.  The disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
5. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the test score of each candidate.
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit as indicated above, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
7. A final average score of 70% in the interview is required to be placed on the eligible list.
8. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3208 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  04-07-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

