DIRECTOR OF ENFORCEMENT OPERATIONS

Class Code:       4266
Open Date:  01-26-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY 

$123,066 to $179,943

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job.


DUTIES

A Director of Enforcement Operations plans, coordinates, and directs or assists in directing the activities of a Division which is responsible for carrying out the City's systematic and complaint inspection programs, rent stabilization programs, and habitability enforcement programs; or the development and direction of specialized housing programs; oversees administrative and budgetary matters of the Division; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.


REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university and two years of full-time paid professional experience supervising professional staff engaged in any of the following areas:  the management and administration of a housing habitability enforcement program or the management and administration of a rent stabilization/rent control program; or
2. Two years of full-time paid professional experience as an attorney which provides experience in civil or criminal enforcement actions related to housing habitability matters or rent stabilization/rent control matters; or
3. Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles, as a Chief Inspector or in a position at the level of a Senior Management Analyst II responsible for overseeing the operations of a Code Enforcement Program or Rent Stabilization Program. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to answering the regular City application supplemental questions, each applicant is required to complete the Director of Enforcement Operations Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing.  The Director of Enforcement Operations Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application.  Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license.  Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position.  Therefore, to be considered "professional", non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
5. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree/or coursework. 


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from January 26, 2018 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, an expert review committee may be assembled to evaluate each candidate's qualifications for the position of Director of Enforcement Operations. In this evaluation, the expert review committee will assess each candidate's training and experience based upon the information in the candidate's City employment application and the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered by the expert review committee as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Director of Enforcement Operations, based solely on the information presented to the committee, will be invited to participate in the interview.


SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2, and qualifications review as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following: 

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and professional development as they have provided knowledge of:  principles, practices, methods, and techniques of housing programs including habitability code enforcement and rent stabilization programs; laws and regulations relating to housing programs; principles and practices of supervision, including planning, delegating, and reviewing the work of subordinates; supervisory responsibility for equal employment opportunity; history, best practices, and legal precedents of rent stabilization programs and enforcement; and the ability to: manage through subordinate supervisors; plan, organize, direct, and evaluate the work of a variety of staff engaged in the development and administration of a housing enforcement program; communicate effectively orally and in writing; prepare and present oral and written reports, recommendations, and other materials clearly, concisely, accurately, logically, and convincingly; work independently and complete assignments from only general instructions; plan, organize, and direct the activities of staff; resolve personnel problems; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

As part of their evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. The Qualifications Questionnaire will not be separately scored but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate's qualifications. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the interview panel.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of MARCH 19, 2018 TO MARCH 30, 2018.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
4. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit as indicated below, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
5. Appointment to a position in this class is subject to a one year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
6. Promotional candidates will accrue 0.10 of a point seniority credit for each year of service in those classes which provide qualifying experience for this examination.  A maximum of 1.00 point will be added to the score of such candidates.
7. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 
9. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN 
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 4266 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 01-26-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

