DIRECTOR OF PRINTING SERVICES 

Class Code:       1488
Open Date:  10-12-18
Revised: 10-24-18
 (Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$117,596 to $171,946

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

The Director of Printing Services manages the production, accounting, and systems functions in the City's Printing Division of the Department of General Services; directs the activities of a printing production operation including prepress, press, and bindery operations to maintain efficient and economical production at competitive prices; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective workforce.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
	
1. Three years of full-time paid experience at the level of Printing Services Supervisor with the City of Los Angeles managing a diversified printing operation, or
2. Three years full-time paid experience as a Bindery Equipment Operator II, Pre-Press Operator II, Printing Press Operator II, Printing Services Superintendent, or Printing Services Supervisor with the City of Los Angeles. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2018.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight: 	Essay. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
       Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and personal qualifications as they provide the knowledge of: effective printing and bindery processes, practices, and procedures as related to the economical and efficient operation of a large printing operation; City regulations regarding purchasing, accounting, and budgeting; safety rules and regulations such as CAL/OSHA and related City ordinances in order to assure own and others' safety; supervisory principles, practices, and techniques such as delegation of authority, progressive discipline, performance evaluation, planning, organizing, directing, training, staffing, and motivating employees; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity; and the ability to: maintain records and make reports, manage separate processes necessary to complete complex printing and make estimates for material, labor, and other costs; direct and coordinate the work of groups of employees engaged in a variety of printing-related activities; plan work in a way which achieves organizational and project objectives, complete assignments in a timely manner, and manage multiple assignment and responsibilities efficiently; maintain a work environment to enhance both employee morale and productivity; plan and direct the efficient and cost-effective operation of the City's Printing Division; and deal tactfully and effectively with City Officials, representatives of City departments, and employees; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Prior to the interview, applicants will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Director of Printing Services. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Please note that applicants must complete the advisory essay and meet minimum qualifications as stated on this bulletin in order to be considered further in the examination process.

The advisory essay will be administered on-line. Applicants invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps needed to complete the on-line advisory essay. Applicants will be required to complete the on-line advisory essay between NOVEMBER 12, 2018 and NOVEMBER 19, 2018. Additional instructions will be sent via e-mail. Applicants who fail to complete the advisory essay as instructed may be disqualified.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JANUARY 14, 2019 to JANUARY 25, 2019.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated in this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
5. Candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of continuous service in those classes which provide qualifying experience for this position. A maximum of one point will be added to the score of these candidates.
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1488 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-12-18 REV 10-24-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

