DRILL RIG OPERATOR
Class Code:      3521
Open Date: 03-30-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$61,554 to $89,993 

NOTE:

Annual salary is the beginning of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Drill Rig Operator operates hydraulic, mechanical, and percussion drilling equipment to drill through soil and rock for engineering and construction projects or to extract soil samples for laboratory testing.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience in the operation or assisting in the operation of hydraulic, mechanical or percussion drilling equipment to drill through soil and rock for engineering and construction projects or to extract soil samples for laboratory testing; and
2. A valid California Class A or B driver's license with a tank (N) endorsement and a valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles are required at the time of filing.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. For positions requiring a valid Class A or B driver's license, candidates will be asked to submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVS Section 1808.1 prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Applicants must attach a copy of their valid California Class A or B driver's license with an "N" endorsement to their on-line application at the time of filing. Applicants who fail to submit a copy of their driver's license with an "N" endorsement will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
4. All applicants must list the percentage of time performing the operation or assisting in the operation of hydraulic, mechanical or percussion drilling equipment to drill through soil and rock or to extract soil samples in the supplemental questions section of the application or the application will not be processed. The percentage of time performing the work claimed as qualifying will be prorated to yield qualifying full-time experience.
5. Candidates may be required to demonstrate their ability to safely operate drilling equipment prior to appointment.
6. Experience operating conventional/hollow stem auger, rotary wash and core drilling equipment to depths of 100 feet or more is especially desired.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.



NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be completed at the time of filling for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.
APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from March 30, 2018 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:  

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of: various types of drills, assembly and operation of  drills; operation and maintenance of drill rig; soil types; operating speeds of different types of drills; soil and water contaminants; arithmetic calculations; safety principles and regulations such as OSHA regulations; methods of handling contaminated soil; and the ability to: use hand tools, identify potential hazardous conditions, read and understand written instruction; communicate orally with assistants, supervisors, engineers, the public, and others; operate a laptop sufficient to navigate and operate a computerized percussion drilling equipment; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JUNE 4, 2018 to JUNE 15, 2018.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Based on City policy, before being hired in one of these positions you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol screening test.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.  
6. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
8. In conjunction with Civil Service rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 3521 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03-30-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

