DUPLICATING MACHINE OPERATOR

Class Code:       1493
Open Date:  12-14-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$37,416 to $54,705; $39,504 to $57,754; and $41,697 to $60,969 
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $52,847 to $65,646; $55,895 to $69,446; and $58,296 to $72,432.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Duplicating Machine Operator operates offset process duplicating machines or direct process duplicating machines (digital high speed photocopiers with electronic front-ends), plate making, and post-press operations, such as binding, scoring, folding, collating, stitching, trimming and cutting.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Completion of one course in operating an offset process duplicating machine or direct process duplicating machine (digital high speed photocopier with an electronic front-end) and six months of full-time paid experience in operating these machines; or
2. One year of full-time paid experience in operating an offset process duplicating machine or direct process duplicating machine (digital high speed photocopier with an electronic front-end).

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants qualifying under Requirement #1 above must list in the Supplemental Questions section of the application the name of the school attended, the course title, date completed and the type(s) of offset or direct process duplicating machine(s) on which training was received.
2. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Duplicating Machine Operator Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Duplicating Machine Operator Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed.
3. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying coursework. Applicants who wish to expedite this process may attach a copy of their transcript (annotated with the course in operating an offset process duplicating machine or direct process duplicating machine, credits earned, and grade received) to their on-line application at the time of filing in the Attachments section.

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training in one or more of the following areas. Only persons possessing the following may be considered for appointments to fill such positions.

Experience and training in the use of Multilith, Chief, A.B. Dick or equivalent offset process duplicating machines


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:
Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, DECEMBER 27, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs by qualifications review or in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Duplicating Machine Operator may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Duplicating Machine Operator based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Technical Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of a demonstration of job knowledge and an evaluation of general qualifications by technical interview. Candidates may be examined for knowledge of: parts and components of an offset printing machine and a high speed digital copier; paper weights and how to set machine for printing or duplicating on appropriate stock; terms used in operating duplicating machines, off-set printing, and high speed copying; computers and applications as they apply to duplicating, such as word processing programs, Excel, Publisher, and PDF files; variable data such as PrintShop mail; safety principles and practices pertaining to the operation of duplicating machines; the ability to: operate various models of duplicating machines, high speed digital copying machines, and small offset printing machines; demonstrate skill in handling chemicals used in printing and duplicating; follow written instructions; interact effectively with supervisors and customers in order to complete work assignments; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the Demonstration of Job Knowledge and Evaluation of General Qualifications by Technical Interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that examinations will begin during the period of MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2019 through TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2019.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. A final average score of 70% in the technical interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1493 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-14-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

