ELECTRICAL REPAIRER
Class Code:       3853
Open Date:  12-29-17
    (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY 
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $74,332 to $95,567; $106,174 (flat rated); $116,614 (flat rated). 
NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

An entry-level Electrical Repairer works as a trainee under close supervision of journey-level workers in both the shop and the field in the maintenance, overhauling, dismantling, repairing, rebuilding, rewinding, cleaning, reassembling, and installing of electrical equipment and components within the Water and Power systems. Trainees receive extensive classroom training as well as on the job training. 

A journey-level Electrical Repairer performs a variety of skilled electrical rewinding, repairing, rebuilding, assembling, troubleshooting, maintenance and rigging work in the shop and field; and may lead a group of employees performing electrical repair work in shop and field locations. 

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Six months of full-time paid experience in a class at least at the level of an Electrical Craft Helper with the City of Los Angeles performing electrical work on equipment and circuits in the maintenance or construction of electrical systems; or
2. Six months of full-time experience performing electrical work on equipment and circuits in the maintenance or constructions of electrical systems while in the United States Armed Forces; or
3. Six months of full-time paid experience as a Construction Electrical Mechanic or Construction Electrical Helper at LADWP performing electrical work on equipment and circuits in the construction, maintenance, or repair of electrical systems; or
4. One year of full-time paid experience performing electrical work on equipment and circuits in the maintenance, construction, or repair of electrical systems; or
5. Completion of at least eight months in the Utility Pre-Craft Trainee training program sponsored by the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power performing electrical work on equipment and circuits in the maintenance or construction of electrical systems; or
6. Completion of a General Electrician program with a minimum of 40 units from an accredited college listed on https://www.dir.ca.gov/dlse/ecu/listofapprovedschoolsdetail.html; or
7. Certificate of completion for the Hayden or Delmar Electrical Training Program sponsored by LADWP.

PROCESS NOTES

1. All entry-level positions in this class are temporary training positions as defined in Civil Service Commission Rule 5.30. An Electrical Repairer must successfully complete an extensive on-the-job and classroom training program within three years in order to receive an appointment to a regular Electrical Repairer position. 
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 must submit at the time of filing their application a copy of their DD-214 or a copy of their military identification indicating an End of Active Obligated Service (EAOS) dated within six months from the application date. The copy of the DD-214 or military identification with EAOS must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the copy is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the DD-214 or military identification with EAOS at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.
3. Active United States Military personnel may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until they have completed their military service and have been discharged with satisfactory performance. Proof of military service and satisfactory performance must be provided prior to appointment.
4. Applicants filing under Requirement #5 who lack two months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
5. Applicants filing under Requirement #5 must submit with their application a City of Los Angeles "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form, with the required signatures, verifying their experience performing electrical work on equipment and circuits in the maintenance or construction of electrical systems. The VWE form may be obtained on-line at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf.  Applicants may attach the completed VWE form to their on-line application at the time of filing or will have seven (7) calendar days from the online submission date to email a copy of their completed VWE form, including the required signatures to: per.appdocs@lacity.org.  The subject line of your email must include the exam title, your name and indicate it is a VWE. In the body of your email, you must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number and contact phone number.   Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.

6. Applicants filing under Requirement #6 and #7 must submit a copy of their Proof of Completion at the time of filing. The copy of the Proof must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application has been submitted. If the Proof is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the Proof at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination. 
7. A valid California driver's license is required prior to appointment. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
8. An Electrical Repairer must be designated as an Authorized Person, which permits one to hold Work Authorities, prior to completion of probation as a journey-level Electrical Repairer. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JANUARY 11, 2018. 

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from December 29, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  100%

In the written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: the fundamentals of electricity as related to electrical repair work; electrical and mechanical characteristics of electrical equipment; installation and operation of electrical wiring; commonly used tools and equipment of the electrical repairing trade; techniques and procedures of brazing and soldering; inspection and testing procedures, methods, stress limits, and equipment used in moving and hoisting heavy equipment; hazards and CAL/OSHA safety precautions relating to electrical repair work; practices and procedures relating to first aid; basic algebra skills related to electrical theory, and ability to: read and interpret electrical diagrams and drawings; understand and follow written instructions; deal tactfully, persuasively, and effectively with employees from other sections and departments; and other necessary knowledge, skills and abilities.
Candidates will be notified later by email of the time and location of the written test, which will be held in a single half-day session in Los Angeles on SATURDAY, MARCH 3, 2018.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Based on City Policy, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered open candidates.
7. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit as indicated above, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
8. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

 Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN OPEN
COMPETITIVE AND INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


Class Code 3853 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12-29-17

