ELECTRICAL REPAIR SUPERVISOR

Class Code:       3855
Open Date:  09-22-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$115,570 to $122,022

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Electrical Repair Supervisor assigns, reviews and evaluates the work of a group of Electrical Repairers, helpers, and trainees engaged in a variety of skilled electrical rewinding, repairing, rebuilding, assembling, troubleshooting, maintenance and rigging work in a shop and in the field; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Four years of full-time paid experience as a journey-level electrical repairer.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Journey-level experience is defined as completion of a recognized apprenticeship or five years of full-time paid experience in electrical work, such as rewinding, repairing, rebuilding and assembling single and three-phase steam and hydro-powered generators, synchronous condensers, motors over 50 horsepower, station and distribution transformers over 250 KVA and switching equipment used by utilities for power distribution and voltage control.
4. Time served as an Electrical Repair trainee in the Department of Water and Power, DDR Number 95-38531, will not be recognized as journey-level experience.
	
SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010(b) and Civil Service Commission Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for certain positions that require special skills and/or training. Only persons possessing the following may be considered for appointment to fill such positions:

 A Crane/Derrick Surveyor license issued by the State of California's Division of Occupational Safety and Health 
- Crane Certifier Accreditation Unit.
NOTE:

Applicants filing for selective certification consideration must attach a copy of their Crane/Derrick Surveyor license to the online application at the time of filing. The license must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the license is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the license. Applicants who fail to submit the license at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further for selective certification.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll 
to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2017.


SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's experience, and background in providing the skills necessary to perform the duties of an Electrical Repair Supervisor, including knowledge of: tools, equipment and practices used in shop and field repair, overhaul, rebuilding and modification of a variety of electrical hydraulic, steam, heating, cranes, elevators,  building maintenance, generators, transformers, and motors; inspection and testing procedures to determine the extent of wear and damage to a variety of equipment; electrical and mechanical features of equipment used in water and power utilities; performance characteristic of tools, equipment and facilities used in field and shop work; rigging practices in the lifting and moving of heavy equipment, apparatus, and materials; safety principles and practices in the shop and field including Cal/OSHA requirements and Department of Water and Power safety rules; fundamental principles and practices of supervision; City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity; Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) as they relate to subordinate employees;  ability to: utilize computers and software such as MAXIMO or Worktech; make decisions regarding quality assurance and recommend acceptance on contracts; direct and coordinate the work of groups of employees engaged in a variety of electrical repair activities; communicate and deal tactfully and effectively with others; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of DECEMBER 4, 2017 to DECEMBER 15, 2017.

NOTES:
 
1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
8.   In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
 ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 3855  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09-22-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY

