ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR           
 				                                               	 Class Code:       4221
					 Open Date:  03-02-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$81,494 to $98,553		

NOTE:

Annual salary is the beginning of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Electrical Inspector inspects new, existing and modified electrical installations to secure conformance to electrical laws, ordinances and safety provisions; inspects electrical work in public buildings to assure conformance to City plans, specifications, and standards; and assists in training other inspectional employees as required.

REQUIREMENTS/ MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Four years of full-time paid experience as an electrical inspector with work in residential and commercial OR residential and industrial electrical installations; or
2. Successful completion of a State of California approved electrical apprenticeship program and four years of full-time paid electrical experience with work in residential and commercial OR residential and industrial electrical installations; or
3. Nine years of full-time paid electrical experience with work in residential and commercial OR residential and industrial electrical installations.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met or the apprenticeship has been completed.
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 must submit a certificate from a valid State of California approved electrical apprenticeship program. Applicants must attach a copy of this certificate to the online application at the time of filing. The certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the certificate. Applicants who fail to submit the certificate at the time of filling by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.
3. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Upon appointment, an Electrical Inspector will be required to furnish an automobile, properly insured, for use in City service. Mileage will be paid according to established rates.
5. International Code Council (ICC) Certification as a Commercial Electrical Inspector is required within 24 months of hire.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations. 

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from March 2, 2018 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:  

     Examination Weight: Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%
     
The examination score will consist entirely of a multiple-choice written test. In the written test, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: basic electrical theory and principles, including electrical symbols; pertinent provisions of the National Electrical Code applicable to electrical work; various types of electrical services and equipment, including uses, functions, construction, and wiring methods sufficient to perform inspections of new, existing, and modified electrical installations; proper use of the English language in written communication; and the ability to: recognize substandard electrical installations and wiring that pose an immediate threat to safety; read, interpret, and apply technical written materials including laws, ordinances and codes pertaining to the electrical field instructions, plans of electrical installations, floor plans, load schedules and equipment installations; perform basic arithmetic and algebraic calculations; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, APRIL 28, 2018 in Los Angeles.

NOTES:  

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON AN
OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to:  http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

Class Code 4221 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03-02-18

