ELECTRICAL CRAFT HELPER
Class Code:       3799
Open Date:  09-28-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$63,686 (flat-rated) 
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $58,839 to $73,100; and $64,310 to $79,886

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

An Electrical Craft Helper assists a skilled journey-level worker engaged in one of the electrical trades. Typical assignments involve the maintenance and construction of electrical systems for buildings and facilities; installation and maintenance of overhead or underground power distribution systems; or shop repair activities. Apprentice training opportunities leading to craft positions are available in some departments.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Six months of full-time paid experience as a helper in an electrical trade; or
2. Successful completion of one of the following:
a. Completion of at least eight months in the Utility Pre-Craft Trainee training program sponsored by the Department of Water and Power; or
b. Hayden Electricity Course sponsored by the Department of Water and Power; or
c. Pre-Electrical Craft Helper training course presented by Los Angeles Trade Technical College; or
d. The 120 hour Electrical Technician/Electric Utility Worker class presented by the Los Angeles Unified School District; or
e. The 600 hour Electrical Technician/Electrical Distribution Mechanic Trainee Program presented by the Los Angeles Unified School District; or
f. An accredited lineman college with a climbing certificate; or
3.   Six months of full time experience as a helper in performing electrical work on equipment and circuits in the maintenance or construction of electrical systems while in the United States Armed Forces.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 must submit proof of completion as requested in Requirement #2. Applicants must attach a copy of the proof of completion to the online application at the time of filing. The requested document(s) must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the document(s) is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the document(s). Applicants who fail to submit the document(s) at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.
2. High school graduation is desired but not required.
3. Some positions may require a valid California Class A and/or Class B driver's license and valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles, prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. 
5. Active United States Military personnel may file for this examination; however, they cannot be appointed until they have completed their military service and have been discharged with satisfactory performance. Proof of military service and satisfactory performance must be provided prior to appointment.
6. Applicants filing under Requirement #3 must submit at the time of filing their application a copy of their DD-214 or a copy of their military identification indicating an End of Active Obligated Service (EAOS) date within six months from the application date. The copy of the DD-214 or military identification with EAOS must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the copy is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the DD-214 or military identification with EAOS at the time of filing by attaching it to the on-line application will not be considered further in this examination.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin. Applications submitted before the start of the filing period will not be accepted. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed below: 

From 8:00 am Tuesday, October 9, 2018 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, October 11, 2018
From 8:00 am Tuesday, November 19, 2019 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, November 21, 2019
From 8:00 am Tuesday, December 1, 2020 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, December 3, 2020

The examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. Filing periods may change without prior notice or additional dates may be added, as needed, at a later date. For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen on the dates noted in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin. 

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Multiple-Choice Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The written test will consist of multiple-choice questions by which the candidates may be examined for knowledge of: basic safety principles and procedures, including proper lifting techniques and procedures for working safely in confined spaces; specialized safety equipment to be used for various jobs; common types of knots sufficient to secure items to the hand line used in underground and overhead work; types and uses of conducting and insulating materials; basic arithmetic, including addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division; Motor Vehicle Code's rules for operation of vehicles; mechanical theory and applications sufficient to perform basic and semi-skilled assembly and reassembly work of electrical and lighting equipment; basic physics principles as they apply to mechanical devices and tools sufficient to operate these devices efficiently; and the ability to perform vehicle safety inspections, including checking fuel levels, brake operation, and vehicle lights; use and care for hand and power tools; measure materials such as cables and wires; read, comprehend, and interpret test equipment, and written work instructions and documents, including plates on transformers and cables, safety precaution labels and street maps; alphabetize materials for filing sufficient to organize documents and materials; deal cooperatively, tactfully, and effectively with co-workers, supervisors and others; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Electrical Craft Helper.

The first multiple-choice test administration will be held in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2018 in Los Angeles. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the multiple-choice test. Additional test dates will be added as needed. 

For future test administrations, candidates may have the option of choosing to take the multiple-choice test in-person at a City facility or on-line. Those who choose to take the multiple-choice test on-line may do so as instructed from a remote location, which may include your home or City facility, using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will be notified by e-mail if this option becomes available.

APPOINTMENT

Prior to appointment, eligibles may be required to pass a test of physical ability administered by the appointing authority which may test areas of upper and lower body strength, flexibility and stamina.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. You may take the Electrical Craft Helper written test only once every 365 days. If you have taken the Electrical Craft Helper written test during an open filing period in the Personnel Department within the last 365 days, you may not file for this examination at this time.
3. Based on City policy, before being hired into one of these positions, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol screening test.
4. The incumbents of some positions in this class may be required to pass an annual or periodic work fitness evaluation to determine their eligibility for continued employment in this class.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. For some positions within the Department of Water and Power, a Class B license issued by the Department of Motor Vehicles, will be required within the first six months of employment.
7. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
8. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
9. Your rank on the employment list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of the examination are merged onto one list.
10. Your name may be removed from the eligible list after 12 months.
11. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3799 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09-28-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to:  http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

