ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING DRAFTING TECHNICIAN        
 
Class Code:     7532
                                                                                                       Open Date: 11-30-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$51,907 to $75,898 
The salary in the Harbor Department is $56,522 to $82,643 
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $71,660 to $89,011 and $76,191 to $94,649

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf. 

DUTIES

An Electrical Engineering Drafting Technician performs electrical drafting using a Computer Aided Design and Drafting (CADD) system in the preparation of engineering designs. An employee in this classification makes computations in the preparation and maintenance of electrical and communication design drawings, wiring diagrams, plans, and charts relating to the construction, operation, and maintenance of a wide variety of electrical installations and facilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS 

1. Completion of 12 semester units or 18 quarter units in Computer Aided Design and Drafting (CADD) and completion of one course in geometry and trigonometry from a high school, accredited college, university, trade or technical school; or
2. Two years of full-time paid drafting experience in the field of electrical engineering with one year full-time paid drafting experience using a CADD system.

PROCESS NOTES	

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required education or experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for an appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
3. A combination of coursework and experience will not be accepted as meeting the requirements.
4. Applicants qualifying under Requirement #1 must list their school name and location, course titles with number of semester or quarter units, and completion dates for each course claimed as qualifying in the Supplemental Questions section of the on-line application. Applicants who fail to provide this information on their application will not be considered further in this examination. 
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
6. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying coursework. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.
		
NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed below:

From 8:00 a.m. Friday, November 30, 2018 to 11:59 p.m., Thursday, December 13, 2018
From 8:00 a.m. Friday, June 14, 2019 to 11:59 p.m., Thursday, June 27, 2019

The examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. Filing periods may change without prior notice or additional dates may be added, as needed, at a later date. For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen on the dates noted in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin. 

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the weighted multiple-choice test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates.


SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Multiple-Choice Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%


The examination will consist entirely of a weighted multiple-choice test administered and proctored on-line. In the on-line multiple-choice test the following competencies may be evaluated: Reading Comprehension, Attention to Detail, Interpersonal Skills, Follow Written Directions, Technology Application, and Job Knowledge including knowledge of: the general purpose of electrical control, protection devices and equipment, and their necessary circuitry and connections; National Electrical Code Symbols and nomenclature used in schematics, plans, substructure maps, specifications, wiring diagrams and electrical design drawings; the capabilities of computer aided drafting software such as AutoCAD and MicroStation, and their associated functions; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

The multiple-choice test will be proctored and administered on-line during a single session. Candidates invited to participate in the on-line multiple-choice test will be able to take the test from a remote location using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the dates and specific steps on how to take the multiple-choice test on-line. It is anticipated that the first administration of the remote proctored multiple-choice test will be administered between TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2019 and TUESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2019. Candidates who do not complete and submit the multiple-choice test on-line using a computer by the specified date and time will not be considered further in this examination. Additional test dates may be added as needed.

Additional job analysis information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Electrical Engineering Drafting Technician. Additional on-line testing information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess. Candidates who do not have the required equipment may have the option to take the multiple-choice test onsite at a City facility.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. You may take the Electrical Engineering Drafting Technician multiple-choice test only once every 365 days.
5. Your rank on the employment list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of the examination are merged onto one list.
6. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
8. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7532 CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11-30-18 

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

Class Code  7532. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05-17-13

