ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION MECHANIC

Class Code:        3879
Open Date:   04-07-17
 (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

For trainee positions:  $74,666 to $96,006; $78,341 to $100,725
For journey-level positions:  $106,675; $111,916; $117,115; $123,129 (flat-rated)

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

An entry-level Electric Distribution Mechanic works as a trainee under close supervision of journey-level workers. Trainees receive extensive classroom training as well as on the job training as a cable splicer and as a line mechanic.

Electric Distribution Mechanic trainees assist in the construction, maintenance and repair of overhead electric power sub-transmission and distribution lines and equipment; constructs high-voltage distribution pole lines; makes construction changes to existing lines and equipment; repairs power lines and line equipment; repairs and reroutes services; sets poles; installs transformer racks; hangs and installs transformers and switches of various types and sizes; installs overhead street lights and guy wires; makes repairs to energized lines; performs limited line clearance tree trimming; installs watt-hour meters; uses appropriate live line  tools to install and remove approved protective covering on energized distribution and sub-transmission circuits of 7.5kV and above; and climbs poles.

Electric Distribution Mechanic trainees assist in the construction, maintenance, and repair of underground electric power, transmission, sub-transmission, and distribution cable work.  Performs work activities in connection with underground cable installation and removal; pulls cables and service lines through sub-structures, vaults, duct lines, up poles and walls, over roofs of buildings and to customers' service panels; performs rigging operations of cable pulling equipment; installs and removes transformers and related equipment in vaults and sub-structures; splices energized and de-energized low-voltage cables, splices high voltage de-energized cables; maintains gas and oil filled cable and equipment; installs watt hour meters; and climbs poles as related to underground work.

A journey-level Electrical Distribution Mechanic performs skilled mechanical and electrical work in connection with the construction, maintenance, and repair of energized and/or de-energized overhead and underground electric transmission, subtransmission, distribution, communication, and utilitarian street light lines, cables, and equipment; and may work as lead over a group of skilled craft workers.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1 Completion of an apprenticeship program sanctioned by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) national organization in conjunction with the National Electrical Contractors Association (NECA), and possession of a valid journey-level line worker card issued by IBEW; or
2 A pole climbing proficiency certificate issued by an accredited lineman's college or by the Department of Water and Power, Power System Safety and Training, or completion of a recognized Advanced Training Pole Climbing program while in the United States Armed Forces; and one of the following:
a. Six months of full-time paid experience assisting or working on an overhead and/or underground Electrical Distribution or Transmission Construction, Maintenance, or Electric Trouble crew and assisting with and/or performing high-voltage line work in and on high-voltage power poles, transmission towers, and underground electric substructures. Six months experience must be specific to assisting with and/or performing work at voltages of 4.16-kV and above; or
b. Six months of full-time experience performing electrical work on equipment and circuits in the maintenance or construction of electrical distribution systems while in the United States Armed Forces; or
c. Eighteen months of full-time paid experience performing line clearance tree trimming; or
d. Eighteen months of full-time paid training and experience chipping around energized 4.8-kV and 34.5-kV electrical conduit systems; or
3. Certificate of completion of the Electrical Lineman Program from Northwest Lineman College.

PROCESS NOTES

1. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
2. A valid California Class A driver's license and medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles is required upon completion of the temporary training period and prior to appointment to a journey-level position. All Electric Distribution Mechanics are required to drive commercial vehicles.
3. Applicants residing outside the State of California may apply with a non-California issued driver's license, however, they cannot be appointed until a valid California driver's license is obtained.
4. All entry-level positions in this class are temporary training positions as defined in Civil Service Commission Rule 5.30. Trainees receive extensive classroom training as well as on-the-job training as a cable splicer and as a line mechanic. An Electric Distribution Mechanic must successfully complete an extensive on-the-job and classroom training program within four years in order to receive an appointment to a regular Electric Distribution Mechanic position.
5. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 must submit a copy of their journey-level line worker card at the time of filing. A copy of the applicable card must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the card is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and the applicant WILL NOT be credited with submitting it. Applicants who fail to submit the card at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.
6. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 may be considered for direct appointment to a regular (journey-level) Electric Distribution Mechanic position and may waive the written test but must achieve a passing score on the performance test to be placed on the eligible list. All other applicants must achieve a passing score on the qualifying written test to be scheduled for the performance test.
7. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 must submit a copy of their pole climbing proficiency certificate at the time of filing. A copy of the certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and the applicant WILL NOT be credited with submitting it. Applicants who fail to submit the certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.
8. Applicants filing under Requirement #3 must submit a copy of their certificate of completion at the time of filing. A copy of the certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and the applicant WILL NOT be credited with submitting it. Applicants who fail to submit the certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.
9. Active United States Military personnel may file for this examination; however, they cannot be appointed until they have completed their military service and have been discharged with satisfactory performance. Proof of military service and satisfactory performance must be provided prior to appointment.
10. Applicants filing under Requirement #2b must submit at the time of filing their application a copy of their DD-214 or a copy of their military identification indicating an End of Active Obligated Service (EAOS) date that is within six months from the application date. The copy of the DD-214 or military identification with EAOS must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the copy is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the DD-214 or military identification with EAOS at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.
11. An Electric Distribution Mechanic is required to utilize various tools and equipment while working in the confined area of an underground vault.
12. Electric Distribution Mechanics are required to climb power poles and utilize various tools and equipment at the top of a pole.

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training in one or more of the following areas. Only persons possessing the following at the time of filing may be considered for appointments to fill such positions.

Possession of a valid journey-level line worker card issued by IBEW.
     
WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  

Applicants who are applying under requirement #1 may access the on-line job bulletin at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/transferjobs. This bulletin is only for candidates who will submit a copy of their journey-level line worker card at the time of filing.

Entry-level applicants who are applying under requirement #2 may access the on-line job bulletins at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. These bulletins are only for candidates who will not be submitting their journey-level line worker card at the time of filing.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter if you apply on-line.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

This examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. For administrative purposes, filing may close periodically and reopen the following day.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates filing under requirement #2 will be scheduled for the following two tests and candidates filing under Requirement #1 will be scheduled for the Performance Test only:

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
                                     Performance Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

In the qualifying written test, which will consist entirely of multiple-choice questions, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: basic physical principles related to the operation of mechanical devices; the proper use and care of portable power and hand tools; basic safety principles and procedures, including first aid and safe work practices for electrical craft work and work in confined spaces; basic arithmetic; and the ability to read sufficiently to understand reference guides, maps, scales, dials, digital readings and measures; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.


Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the written test will be held on a quarterly basis on a Saturday during the following months: JANUARY, APRIL, JULY, and OCTOBER.  Candidates will be scheduled for the written test based on the date and time that applications are received.

Passing Score for the Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying written test may be set either above or below 70%. 

For candidates filing under Requirement #2, only those who receive a passing score on the qualifying written test will be scheduled for the performance test. 

The Performance Test will consist of a series of tasks in which candidates may be examined for: knowledge of portable power and hand tools; physical agility sufficient to climb, balance, and extend; manual dexterity; safety procedures and precautions; and the ability to: lift up to 70 pounds unassisted; measure materials accurately; follow oral and written instructions; read and understand diagrams; communicate orally in a clear and concise manner; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will need to wear appropriate work attire when reporting for the performance test.  Long pants, long-sleeved shirt, and lineman boots are required. Climbing equipment such as gaff pole climbers, body belt, fall restraint system, and body harness will be provided.  You may use your own personal gaff pole climbers and body belt if your equipment meets DWP safety standards and passes inspection by the test raters.  All climbing equipment shall be maintained in good serviceable condition that meets Power Distribution Business Unit Safety Rule standards.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the performance test, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the performance test will be held during the following months: MARCH, JUNE, SEPTEMBER, and DECEMBER. However, journey-level applicants may be notified of other test dates.

NOTES:	

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Candidates may take the test only once every 365 days during the administration of this examination. This restriction applies to both the written test and the performance test.
3. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates. 
7. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
8. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
9. Candidates who fail the written test or the performance test must file a new application to be considered eligible to take the written and performance tests in a subsequent administration.

Notice:
  
If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE
AND ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3879 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04-07-17 

Class Code 3879 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04-07-17 


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

