ELECTRIC SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE
 Class Code:      7520
     		     Open Date: 02-03-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$70,804 to $87,988; $73,372 to $91,162; $75,376 to $93,625; $80,429 to $99,931; $82,517 to $102,520; $93,438 to $98,658; $99,618 to $105,172

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

An Electric Service Representative provides information, guidance, and coordination to customers and contractors regarding electric power distribution and service, design and construction activities related to electric service installations, interpretation of rules, and inspection of new and modified electric services; investigates customers' complaints, services, and equipment; initiates corrective action for existing electric services; and uses personal/mainframe computer-based work management systems to input information and generate reports, including standard office software packages to prepare customer correspondence.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Four years of full-time paid experience installing, inspecting, testing, or repairing electric services, meters, motors, appliances, or similar current consuming devices or in the construction, maintenance, inspection or design of overhead or underground electrical distribution systems.

Satisfactory completion of 15 semester or 23 quarter units in Engineering, Architecture, Electricity or Electronics from an accredited college, university or trade school may be substituted for each year of the required experience up to a maximum of two years. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met. 
2. Applicants wishing to substitute education for experience must list their school name and location, course titles, number of units, and completion dates for each course claimed as qualifying in the text box which appears in the Supplemental Questions section of the on-line application. 
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
5. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying coursework.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will ONLY be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon to file on-line. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs  for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying
              Interview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination for Electric Service Representative will consist of a qualifying written test and a weighted interview. In the qualifying written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: a-c and d-c theory and circuitry; principles of electricity pertaining to power distribution line construction, load and voltage control, metering, energy consuming equipment; general electrical terms; methods, tools and instruments for testing various electrical apparatus; Department of Water and Power regulations; the installation, maintenance, and repair of electric services and meters; characteristics of electrical equipment; Ohm's Law; safe practices and procedures; appropriate ladder use and placement; and the ability to: locate and analyze defects in electrical circuits; assess job site safety hazards; use electronic and electrical test instruments; read and interpret blueprints, schematics, and diagrams; and other skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the time and location of the qualifying written test, which will be held in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, APRIL 15, 2017, in Los Angeles. 
Passing Score for Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying multiple-choice test in order to be scheduled for the interview.

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's experience and background in providing the skills necessary to perform the duties of an Electric Service Representative, including knowledge of: methods, tools, and instruments used to test electrical equipment; the installation, maintenance, and repair of electric services and meters; safety rules and practices; and the ability to: use electronic and electrical test equipment; locate and analyze defects in electric equipment; analyze job-related problems and develop practical solutions; multi-task; assess job site and safety hazards; communicate orally in an effective manner on a one-to-one and/or one-to-group basis; use tact in dealings with peers, supervisors, other City departments, and the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

NOTES:
	
1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7520 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 02-03-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

