ELECTRICAL TESTER   	
Class Code:       7512
Open Date:  10-28-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
									
ANNUAL SALARY
 
$54,079 to $67,170; $58,651 to $72,871; $61,491 to $76,379; $63,809 to $82,037; $73,372 to $91,162; and $78,049 to $96,945

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An entry-level Electrical Tester receives intensive classroom and on-the-job instruction and training. The trainee is supervised by a Senior Electrical Tester and works as a trainee assisting journey-level electrical workers within the Testing Laboratories in the performance of diagnostic tests, calibration, repair, maintenance, and adjustments on: high and low voltage electrical circuits, equipment and related material; meters, smart-grid systems, conventional and renewable generation resources, control circuits, instruments, relays and related equipment and materials; new locations; and performs related duties. A journey-level Electrical Tester: performs routine calibration tests of meters; makes routine electrical tests of material; assists in testing more complex electric instruments and equipment; tests and replaces electric meters, control and protective relays, instruments, transformers, and other equipment and materials; performs cathodic protection in underground and abovehead structures; performs infrared inspection of high voltage overhead distribution systems; and builds and test circuit boards, removes or replaces components, and tests communication levels, in regard to facility/substation Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems, Remote Terminal Units (RTU), and other control systems. Journey-level Electrical Testers may also: lead a group of employees engaged in field or laboratory electrical testing; perform the more difficult and advanced functions of electrical testing; and perform related duties. 

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Six months of full-time paid experience and current employment as a helper or trainee for a utility performing work on equipment and circuits, construction and maintenance; or
2.	Completion of eight months in the Utility Pre-Craft Trainee training program sponsored by the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power; or
3.	Successful completion of three semester units or four quarter units from an accredited college or university or trade school in physics, chemistry, electricity, or electronics; or 
4.	Successful completion of the Pre-Electrical Craft Helper training course presented by the Los Angeles Trade Technical College; or
5.	Six months of full-time experience performing electrical work on equipment and circuits in the maintenance or construction of electrical systems while in the United States Armed Forces.


PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 who lack two months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #3 must list the course titles, number of units, school and completion dates of the required courses in the Supplemental Questions section of the on-line application. 
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #4 must submit a copy of the Electrical Craft Helper certificate of completion at the time of filing. The copy of the certificate must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the certificate at the time of filing by not attaching it to the on-line application will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed.
4. Appointments will be made to temporary training positions in accordance with Section 5.30 of the Rules of the Board of Civil Service Commissions, for a maximum duration of three years. An Electrical Tester in a trainee position must successfully complete a three-year intensive on-the-job training and classroom training program to qualify for promotion to journey-level.
5. Active United States Military personnel may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until they have completed their military service and have been discharged with satisfactory performance.
6. Applicants filing under Requirement #5 must submit at the time of filing their application a copy of their DD214 or a copy of their military identification indicating an End of Active Obligated Service (EAOS) date within six months from application date. The copy of the DD214 or military identification with EAOS must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the copy is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the DD214 or military identification with EAOS at the time of filing by not attaching it to the on-line application will not be considered further in this examination.
7. Some positions may require a license to operate a forklift or crane.
8. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
9. Employees who work in and around DOT-regulated natural gas/petroleum oil pipelines are subject to Federal DOT testing protocols under the 1990 Federal Omnibus Transportation Test Act (49 CFR, Part 199- Drug and Alcohol Testing) and must pass a "pre-employment" drug and alcohol test under the DOT protocol.
10. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency.  A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
11. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying coursework.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

This examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. For administrative purposes, filing may close periodically and reopen periodically.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the qualifying written multiple-choice test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 


SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying
 										      Performance Test . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying written test and a weighted performance test. In the qualifying written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, the following competencies may be evaluated: Mathematics, Analytical Ability, Safety Focus, Electrical Understanding, Interpersonal Skills, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: proper usage and maintenance of electrical testing apparatuses such as multimeters, insulation resistance meters, and power supplies in order to ensure proper working condition; wiring diagrams and schematics sufficient to correctly interpret information such as relative positions of electrical devices and components within an electrical circuit in order to correctly perform tests; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Electrical Tester.

The first qualifying written test will be administered in a single half-day session on SUNDAY, JANUARY 8, 2017, in Los Angeles. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the qualifying written test. Additional test dates may be added as needed.

Passing Score for the Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying written test may be set at, above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying written test in order to be scheduled for the performance test.
	
Your examination score will be based entirely on a demonstration of job knowledge by performance in which the following competencies may be evaluated: Safety Focus; Physical Capability; Electrical Understanding; Equipment Operation, including operation of: electrical and electronic equipment such as electric meters, cables, transformers, power circuit breakers, instrument transformers, generators, and capacitors in order to safely and correctly perform tests and calibrations to ensure the equipment is in operable condition; Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: proper usage and maintenance of electrical testing apparatuses such as multimeters, insulation resistance meters, and power supplies in order to ensure proper working condition; wiring diagrams and schematics sufficient to correctly interpret information such as relative positions of electrical devices and components within an electrical circuit in order to correctly perform tests; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Electrical Tester.

Candidates who pass the qualifying written test will be invited to participate in the performance test. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the performance test, which will be held in Los Angeles.

NOTES:
		
1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. Based on City policy, before being hired in one of these positions you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol-screening test. 
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin. 
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
5. A final average score of 70% or higher in the performance portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.  
6. Your rank on the employment list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of this examination are merged onto one list.
7. You may take this examination only once every 365 days. Your name may be removed from the eligible list after six (6) months.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.
THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON AN
OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7512 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10-28-16

Class Code 7512 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10-28-16


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

