ELECTRICAL MECHANIC SUPERVISOR

Class Code:       3835
Open Date:  07-22-16
REVISED: 08-04-16
 (Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$96,277 to $119,621

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

An Electrical Mechanic Supervisor assigns, reviews, and evaluates the work of electrical mechanics and helpers engaged in the installation, renovation, maintenance, and repair of electric equipment in electric stations, generating stations, power plants, pumping stations, water treatment facilities, water wells, High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) converter stations, and similar locations; uses personal computer and related software programs to assign and track the work of subordinate staff; applies sound supervisory techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS 

Four years of full-time paid experience as a journey-level electrical mechanic.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. A valid designation as an Authorized Person confirmed by the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power is required at the time of appointment. 
4. Time served as an Electrical Mechanic Trainee, Department of Water and Power DDR Number 94-38006, will not be recognized as journey-level experience.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTES:

1. If you have taken the Electrical Mechanic Supervisor qualifying multiple-choice written test and advisory essay administered on June 25, 2016, you may not file under this bulletin. You are currently being processed under the April 22, 2016 Electrical Mechanic Supervisor bulletin. The selection process under that bulletin is still in progress and candidates who attain a passing score on the written test will be scheduled for an interview. Therefore, you will not be allowed to re-apply under this bulletin or to re-take the qualifying multiple-choice written test and advisory essay a second time. A new qualifying multiple-choice written test and advisory essay will be created and administered under this bulletin.
2. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, AUGUST 11, 2016.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:   Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying
                                         Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
                                         Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination for Electrical Mechanic Supervisor will consist of a qualifying written test, an advisory essay, and interview. In the qualifying written test, which  will consist of multiple-choice questions, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: electrical theory relevant to installation, commissioning, maintenance and repair of electrical and electronic equipment in transmission, distribution, receiving, and generating systems; mechanical theory relevant to installation, maintenance, and repair of electrical and electronic equipment; nomenclature, function, operation, maintenance needs, and use of electrical, mechanical, hydraulic and pneumatic equipment, tools, and test instruments used in electrical work; practices and procedures for assembling, dismantling, and repairing electrical and mechanical equipment; rigging, including blocks and tackle, cranes, hoists, and slings; inspection procedures for electrical transmission, distribution, and receiving equipment and water system electrical work; safety practices, procedures, laws, and regulations, including CAL/OSHA, State Safety Orders, DWP safety policies and procedures, Operating Orders, and National Electrical Code pertinent to working with or around high and low voltage electrical, electronic, or energized equipment, riggings, and safety equipment; properties and handling procedures of various materials used in electrical work; first aid procedures; Department of Water and Power clearance and "OK to" procedures for de-energizing and re-energizing electrical equipment; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including directing, assigning, delegating, controlling, motivating, counseling, disciplining, commending, and evaluating the work of subordinates; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity and Memoranda of Understanding as they apply to subordinate employees; and the ability to prepare labor, material, and equipment estimates; plan, direct, schedule, and coordinate the work of crews engaged in the installation, repair, and maintenance of high and low voltage electrical equipment; perform mathematical calculations, including basic arithmetic, metric conversions, and plane geometry; read and understand construction plans, circuit, and wiring diagrams and schematics; read and interpret manufacturer's equipment manuals; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

On the same day of the qualifying written test, candidates will be required to prepare some written material relating to the duties of an Electrical Mechanic Supervisor. This essay material will not be separately scored for those candidates who pass the qualifying multiple-choice test, but will be presented to the interview panel for discussion with the candidates and for consideration in the overall evaluation of candidates' qualifications. Those who do not complete the advisory essay will not be invited to the interview and will be considered to have failed the entire examination.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the qualifying written test and advisory writing exercise, which will be held in a single half-day session in Los Angeles, on SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2016. 

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying multiple-choice test in order to be scheduled for the interview.

Passing Score for the Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, candidates may be evaluated on their experience, professional background, and personal qualifications, including knowledge of: maintenance procedures for electrical and mechanical equipment, including lubrication, adjustment, and cleaning procedures for generating, transmission, distribution, receiving, control, and auxiliary equipment in electric substations, generating stations, power plants, chlorination stations, pumping stations, filtration stations, and converter stations; practices and procedures for assembling and installing appropriate electrical and mechanical equipment; practices and procedures for dismantling and repairing electrical and mechanical equipment; safety practices, procedures, laws, and regulations, including CAL/OSHA, State Safety Orders, DWP safety policies and procedures, Operating Orders, and National Electrical Code pertinent to working with or around high and low voltage electrical, electronic, or energized equipment, riggings, and safety equipment; properties and handling procedures of various materials used in electrical work; the ability to assess and diagnose malfunctions in electrical and mechanical equipment; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including directing, assigning, delegating, controlling, motivating, counseling, disciplining, commending, and evaluating the work of subordinates; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity and Memoranda of Understanding as they apply to subordinate employees; and the ability to prepare labor, material, and equipment estimates; plan, direct, schedule, and coordinate the work of crews engaged in the installation, repair, and maintenance of high and low voltage electrical equipment; communicate in writing in order to prepare memos and reports in response to work activities and inquiries from management and outside agencies; communicate orally to obtain and provide information, direct crew's operations, counsel employees, coordinate activities, and conduct training, in an appropriate tone and persuasive manner; deal tactfully with others, using good judgment in a variety of situations which may involve disagreements and interpersonal problems; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
4. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of the candidate.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. A final average score of 70% is required in the interview portion of the examination to be placed on the eligible list
7. Your rank on the employment list may change as the scores of candidates from the April 22, 2016 Electrical Mechanic Supervisor bulletin are merged onto one list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3835. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .07-22-16 REV 08-04-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

