ELEVATOR MECHANIC
Class Code:       3866
Open Date:  01-27-17
Revised 08-07-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$100,866 (flat-rated)
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $101,351 (flat-rated) and $108,283 (flat-rated).

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower flat-rated positions.
3. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Elevator Mechanic does skilled electrical, electronic, mechanical, and hydraulic work in the maintenance and repair of passenger and freight elevators, escalators, and other vertical and horizontal transportation equipment, and their related equipment.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

A Certificate as a Competent Conveyance (Elevator) Mechanic issued by the California Division of Occupational Safety and Health.

PROCESS NOTES
		
1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete an Elevator Mechanic Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Elevator Mechanic Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. A valid License to Act as a Journey level Elevator Mechanic issued by the City of Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety is required prior to appointment.
3. Experience in the maintenance and repair of selective-collective multi-programmed elevators and escalators is especially desired.
4. Proof of certification or a letter from the State of California indicating a certificate can be issued immediately upon hire (see below for more information) is required at the time of filing for the examination. This certification or letter must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If it is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and the applicant WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit this documentation at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination. 
a. If you do not currently possess a Competent Conveyance (Elevator) Mechanic certification issued by the State of California but have held one in the past, the State of California will not re-issue a Competent Conveyance (Elevator) Mechanic certification until you are re-employed as an Elevator Mechanic.  As such, please contact the State office to request a review of your license status.  If you are still in good standing, request a letter be written on your behalf indicating that a license can be re-issued immediately upon offer of employment.  If hired, you must provide a copy of your certificate to the hiring department prior to your first day of employment.
b. If you have never possessed a Competent Conveyance (Elevator) Mechanic certificate issued by the State of California, please ensure you have submitted a new application to the State prior to requesting a review of your status and/or a letter on your behalf.  If hired, you must provide a copy of your certificate to the hiring department prior to your first day of employment. The State of California elevator mechanic licensing office can be reached at (916) 274-5709 or online at http://www.dir.ca.gov/dosh/elevator/CCCM_App.pdf.
5. Information regarding the Journey-level Elevator Mechanic License issued by the City of Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety may be obtained online at http://www.ladbs.org. 
6. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE	

The examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. For administrative purposes, filing may close periodically and reopen the following day. In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.


QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Elevator Mechanic may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of an Elevator Mechanic, based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review, will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight: Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's work experience and professional development as they have provided the background necessary to perform the duties of an Elevator Mechanic, including knowledge of: inspection, testing, maintenance, repair, and adjustment techniques and procedures used on conveyance equipment and components, including hydraulic elevator system components, electric elevator system components, escalator and moving walk system components, dumb waiter system components, dock ramps system components, and handicapped lift system components;  the identification and proper use of tools common to the elevator mechanic trade; elevator and electrical safety rules, policies, and procedures, including California Code of Regulations - Title 24, California Division of Occupational Safety and Health (Cal/OSHA) Elevator Safety Orders, and the City of Los Angeles Elevator Safety Code;  and the ability to read, interpret and use blueprints, diagrams and schematic drawings for the construction, installation and troubleshooting of conveyance equipment; communicate orally in a clear and effective manner for the purpose of explaining pertinent information to others; interact tactfully and effectively with coworkers, the general public, building operations personnel, and others; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

As part of their evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Candidates may expect panel members to discuss this information during the interviews. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the interview panel.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. 

NOTES:
			
1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. You may take the Elevator Mechanic examination only once every 365 days.  If you have taken the Elevator Mechanic interview during an open filing period in the Personnel Department within the last 12 months, you may not file for this examination at this time.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. Based on City policy, before being hired in one of these positions, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol-screening test.
5. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
6. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
8. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
9. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
10. Your rank on the eligible list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of the examination are merged onto one list.
11. Your name may be removed from the open competitive list after 6 months.
12. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE:
 
If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3866 CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 01-27-17 REV 08-07-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess



