

ELEVATOR REPAIR SUPERVISOR
     Class Code:       3869
Open Date: 03-25-16
REVISED: 04-05-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY
  
$103,001 and $107,636 (flat rated)

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before a accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Elevator Repair Supervisor assigns, reviews, and evaluates the work of Elevator Mechanics and other employees engaged in the maintenance and repair of passenger and freight elevators, escalators, moving walkways, and their appurtenant equipment; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience as a journey-level elevator mechanic; and
2. A valid Certificate of Registration as a journey-level Elevator Mechanic issued by the Los Angeles City Department of Building and Safety; and
3. A valid State of California Certified Competent Conveyance (Elevator) Mechanic Certificate.

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Applicants must list the numbers and expiration dates of their valid journey-level Elevator Mechanic certificate issued by the Los Angeles City Department of Building and Safety, and their State of California Certified Competent Conveyance (Elevator) Mechanic Certificate on their application at the time of filing. 
4. Applicants must attach a copy of their valid State of California Certified Competent Conveyance (Elevator) Mechanic Certificate at the time of filing. The copy of the certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the documents are attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with possessing the certificate. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an interview wherein candidates will be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background and personal qualifications and abilities. Emphasis will be placed on the following: Self-Management, Safety Focus, Supervision, Interpersonal Skills, Shares Knowledge and Information, Leadership, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: best practices used in the operational characteristics of the electrical, electronic, hydraulic, and mechanical parts of electric and hydraulic elevators, moving sidewalks, and escalator systems, and the procedures and methods involved in the installation, maintenance, and repair of these systems. 

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/jobanalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Elevator Repair Supervisor.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of MAY 9, 2016 to MAY 20, 2016.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. Seniority credit at the rate of .25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.  

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON AN
 INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3869 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .03-25-16 REV: 04-05-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


