EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR

Class Code:      1702
Open Date: 10-26-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$82,789 to $121,020 and $102,499 to $149,855
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $97,739 to $121,438 and $120,895 to $150,210.

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

An Emergency Management Coordinator is responsible for developing, coordinating, implementing, and administering comprehensive emergency management programs including disaster preparedness, response, recovery, and mitigation Citywide or for individual City departments, including developing and maintaining emergency response and continuity of operations plans, standard operating procedures, and related training programs, exercises and drills; performs community education and outreach programs on disaster preparedness and planning; works with other City departments, governmental and private agencies, and community based organizations to develop and implement emergency management programs for the City of Los Angeles; analyzes and prepares comprehensive reports, research, recommendations, and correspondence for their assigned department or other administrative bodies as directed; may be assigned emergency response roles in various locations; and may supervise other Emergency Management Coordinators, City employees in other classifications, and/or volunteers involved in emergency management work. 

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a major in emergency management, homeland security, public health, public administration, or a closely-related field; and two years of full-time paid professional experience administering or coordinating a broad based disaster preparedness or emergency operations program for a government agency, emergency services organization, or large company, including developing, analyzing, or revising emergency response or recovery plans, training programs and exercises for large scale natural or human-caused disasters; or
2. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university; and completion of the Emergency Management Specialist Certificate Program by the California Governor's Office of Emergency Services, California Specialized Training Institute; and two years of full-time, paid professional experience administering or coordinating a broad based disaster preparedness or emergency operations program for a government agency, emergency services organization, or large company, including developing, analyzing, or revising emergency response or recovery plans, training programs and exercises for large scale natural or human-caused disasters; or
3. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Management Analyst or in a class at the level working as a City department's representative to the City of Los Angeles' Emergency Operations Organization in administering or coordinating a City department's emergency management program, including developing, analyzing, or revising emergency response or recovery plans, training programs and exercises for large scale natural or human-caused disasters.

A master's degree from an accredited college or university in emergency management, homeland security, or public health may be substituted for a maximum of one year of the required experience.




PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met. 
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Applicants filing under Requirement No. 1 or Requirement No. 2 must list their school name and location, type of degree earned and major in the Education Section of the on-line application. Applicants who fail to provide this information on their application will not be considered further in this examination. 
4. Applicants filing under Requirement No. 2 must submit an Emergency Management Specialist Certificate at the time of filing. The copy of the Certificate must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the Certificate is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it, and WILL NOT be considered further in this examination. 
5. Applicants filing under Requirement No. 3 must submit a copy of their City of Los Angeles "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form with the required signatures, verifying their experience as a City department's representative to the City of Los Angeles' emergency operations organization. The VWE form should indicate the type of work performed and the amount of time spent performing such work. The form may be obtained on-line at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf. Applicants may attach the completed VWE form to their on-line application at the time of filing, or will have seven (7) calendar days from the on-line submission date to e-mail a copy of their completed VWE form to per.appdocs@lacity.org. The subject line of your e-mail must include the exam title, your name, and indication it is a VWE. In the body of your e-mail, you must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number, and contact phone number. Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination. 
6. Applicants wishing to substitute education for one year of the required experience must list their school name and location, master's degree and major in the Education section of the on-line application. Applicants who fail to provide this information on their application will not be considered further in this examination.
7. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
8. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree. 
9. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree. Applicants who wish to expedite this process may attach a copy of their qualifying degree in the Attachments section of the on-line application at the time of filing.
10. Some positions may be required to be "on-call." Please note that all positions with the Los Angeles World Airports are required to be "on-call."
11. Possession of a current Certified Emergency Manager (CEM) and/or the professional designation of Master Exercise Practitioner (MEP) is highly desirable at the Los Angeles World Airports but not required.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

EXAMINATION WEIGHT:  Essay. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
                                            Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Judgment and Decision Making, Responsiveness and Follow-Up, Flexibility, Oral Communication, Written Communication, Shares Knowledge and Information, Project Management, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: various types of emergencies and the subsequent impact on operations; the fundamentals of emergency management, such as preparedness, response, recovery, and mitigation; emergency management systems and procedures;  the City's Emergency Operations Organization; various types of training and exercise programs used to communicate information about emergency management to various audiences; non-City sources of funding for emergency management programs and trainings; mutual aid agencies and the services they provide in case of an emergency; methods and techniques used to develop and maintain emergency operations plans and procedures; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Emergency Management Coordinator.

Prior to the interview, applicants will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of an Emergency Management Coordinator. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Please note that applicants must complete the advisory essay and meet minimum qualifications as stated on this bulletin in order to be considered further in the examination process.

The advisory essay will be administered on-line. Applicants invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps needed to complete the on-line advisory essay. Applicants will be required to complete the on-line advisory essay between NOVEMBER 26, 2018 and DECEMBER 3, 2018. Applicants who fail to complete the advisory essay as instructed may be disqualified.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JANUARY 7, 2019 to JANUARY 14, 2019.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
5. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
6. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code: 1702 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10-26-18

Class Code: 1702 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-26-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

