EMS NURSE PRACTITIONER SUPERVISOR

Class Code:       2340
Open Date:  03-11-16
REVISED: 03-23-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$93,083 to $136,074

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.


DUTIES

Provides and supervises staff involved in non-emergent direct patient care to the ill and injured within the pre-hospital setting; oversees care delivered through the Nurse Practitioner Response Unit (NPRU), which is the Los Angeles Fire Department's alternate service delivery model to render mobile integrated healthcare, and is responsible for the daily management and maintenance of the NPRU; provides medical treatment which includes obtaining patient histories, administering and prescribing medication, conducting diagnostic tests, performing routine medical procedures and consulting with other social services and healthcare professionals; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS

1. A certificate as a Nurse Practitioner by the State of California Board of Registered Nursing with documentation of education and training as a Nurse Practitioner in family practice or emergency medicine, and possession of a current license, Furnishing Number, and a Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) registration number; and 
2. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Nurse Practitioner in an emergency department or urgent care setting; and 
3. An American Heart Association, Basic Life Support (BLS) Provider certificate; and 
4. An American Heart Association, Advance Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) Provider certificate; and 
5. An American Heart Association, Pediatric Advance Life Support (PALS) Provider certificate; and 
6. A current certificate as a Mobile Intensive Care Nurse (MICN) by the Department of Health Services, County of Los Angeles; and 
7. A current certificate as a Nurse Practitioner certified by a national center such as the American Nurse Credentialing Center (ANCC) or American Academy of Nurse Practitioners (AANP) as a Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) or an Emergency Nurse Practitioner (ENP). 

NOTES:  

1. In addition to the regular City application supplemental questions, each applicant is required to complete the an EMS Nurse Practitioner Supervisor Training and Experience Questionnaire at the time of filing. The EMS Nurse Practitioner Supervisor Training and Experience Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Training and Experience Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed. 
2. Previous experience in a pre-hospital setting is highly desired.
3. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
4. Applicants must submit a copy of the required certificates listed under the Requirements Section listed above. Applicants must attach a copy of the required certificates to the online application at the time of filing.  The requested copies must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted.  If the document(s) is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the document(s).  Applicants who fail to submit the document(s) at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and Training and Experience Questionnaires WILL ONLY BE ACCEPTED ON-LINE. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations. 



NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be completed at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.
APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Training and Experience Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will have their Training and Experience Questionnaire evaluated in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from March 11, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Training and Experience Evaluation . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist of an evaluation of training and experience, wherein candidates will be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background and personal qualifications and abilities.  Emphasis will be placed on the following: Job Knowledge, Supervision, Stress Tolerance, Conscientiousness, Self-Management, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: problems, practices, and techniques in the administration of emergency medical treatment, best practices necessary to acquire and evaluate technical medical dataand make diagnostic impressions, the necessary steps to perform tasks at an expeditious pace during extremely demanding circumstances, and how to properly adapt to different environments and situations while treating patients from a wide variety of backgrounds.  

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/JobAnalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under EMS Nurse Practitioner Supervisor.

Training and Experience Questionnaires and City employment applications for all candidates meeting the minimum requirements will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation.  The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the candidate's City application and Training and Experience Questionnaire.


NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
6. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum requirements are met.

 Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.


Class Code 2340 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03-11-16 REV  03-23-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

