ENGINEERING GEOLOGIST ASSOCIATE


Class Code:       7253
Open Date:  08-25-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)


ANNUAL SALARY 

$66,231 to $94,252; $74,082 to $105,444; $82,496 to $117,345; $89,637 to $127,555

The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $78,905 to $98,031; $93,772 to $116,489; $101,685 to $126,365; $109,327 to $135,824

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Engineering Geologist Associate performs professional engineering geological investigations and studies in connection with the design and construction of tracts, dams, reservoirs, tank sites, buildings, streets and highways, tunnels, electric power generating plants, transmission towers, distributing stations and other structures; makes precise geological maps; classifies rock and soil samples; investigates water-bearing strata and geothermal prospects, geologic hazards including landslides, and technical aspects of legal questions; applies geologic principles to evaluate underground conditions and environmental aspects of sites and the cleanup of underground contamination; and applies hydrogeologic principles to characterize groundwater and hydrogeologic conditions of sites.


REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a degree in geology or engineering geology.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application form, each candidate is required to complete the Engineering Geologist Associate Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing.  The Engineering Geologist Associate Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application.  Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. College seniors who are within six months of graduation from an accredited four-year college or university may apply. However, you cannot be appointed until you have completed all your course work.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license.  Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Applicants must list their school name and location, type of degree earned and major in the Education Section of the online City application. Applicants who fail to provide this information on their application will not be considered further in this examination and their applicants will not be processed.
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://percity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
6. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree. 
7. Appointments to Engineering Geologist Associate I positions will be made to temporary training positions in accordance with Section 5.30 of the Rules of the Board of Civil Service Commissioners.  Employees with two years of full-time paid City experience as an Engineering Geologist Associate I will advance to the Engineering Geologist Associate II level.
8. Advancement to Engineering Geologist Associate III positions requires two years of full-time paid, professional experience at the level of Engineering Geologist Associate II and registration as a Professional Geologist with the California State Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists.  Engineering Geologist Associate III positions in the Department of Water and Power require possession of both Professional Geologist and Certified Engineering Geologist licenses issued by the California State Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists.
9. In some City departments, employees may be required to travel to and work in areas outside of Southern California.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from August 25, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

EXPERT REVIEW COMMITTEE

Should a large number of qualified applicants file for this examination, an expert review committee may be assembled to evaluate each applicant's qualifications for the position of Engineering Geologist Associate.  In this evaluation, the expert review committee will assess each applicant's training and experience based upon the information in the applicant's City employment application and the Qualifications Questionnaire.  Those applicants considered by the expert review committee as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of an Engineering Geologist Associate, based solely on the information presented to the committee, will be invited to participate in the interview. 	

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2017.


SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

Your examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, professional development and personal qualifications necessary to perform the duties of an Engineering Geologist Associate, and the knowledge of: engineering geology principles; historical and structural geology, petrology, seismology, paleontology, stratigraphy, petrography, hydrology, chemistry, and physics; historical geology of Southern California; rock and soil sampling methods sufficient to log bore holes, test pits, and trench; geological surveying and mapping procedures, techniques, and equipment; principles of civil engineering and geotechnical engineering, including drafting and surveying, concrete structures and strength of materials; computer functions and common office software programs, such as word processing and computer aided drafting (CAD); and the ability to apply geological knowledge to engineering or environmental problems; identify and classify surface and subsurface geological formations; read topographic maps and aerial photographs; communicate, both orally and in writing, in a clear, concise and effective manner; deal tactfully with City employees, government officials, and customers; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

As part of their evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will consider the information in the Qualifications Questionnaire. The Qualifications Questionnaire will not be scored separately, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate's qualifications. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the interview panel. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of OCTOBER 30, 2017 to NOVEMBER 10, 2017.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin. 
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. Each successful candidate may be required to complete a medical examination prior to appointment.
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7253 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8-25-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 


