ENVIRONMENTAL SUPERVISOR

Class Code:       7304
Open Date:  05-25-18
				(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$82,496 to $120,582 and $89,637 to $131,063
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $102,353 to $127,180 and $111,540 to $138,559.

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions. 
3. For information regarding reciprocity between City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf

DUTIES

An Environmental Supervisor assigns, reviews and evaluates the work of professional personnel and/or consultants engaged in the analysis, review, investigation, study and implementation of environmental policies, regulations, legislation and programs; personally performs the more difficult, technical and/or sensitive assignments; prepares environmental documents; manages large environmental and natural resources projects and programs including regulatory compliance programs and grant funded projects; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS 

1. Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as an Environmental Specialist or in a class at that level which provides experience in the analysis or implementation of environmental legislation, regulations, policies and programs, or in the prediction, assessment, measurement, clean-up, and control of environmental pollutants; or
2. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university AND three years of full-time paid professional experience in the analysis or implementation of environmental legislation, regulations, policies and programs, or in the prediction, assessment, measurement, clean-up and control of environmental pollutants. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, each candidate is required to complete the Environmental Supervisor Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Environmental Supervisor Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met. 
3. Applicants filing under Requirement No. 2 must list their school name, location, and type of degree earned in the Education Section of the City application. 
4. For qualifying work experience in Requirement No. 2, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional," experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree. 
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. 
6. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree. 
7. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
8. Some positions may require the possession of a State of California Registered Environmental Health Specialist Certification prior to appointment.
9. Some positions may require the possession of a State of California Distribution System Operator Certificate prior to appointment.

WHERE TO APPLY	

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2018.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW 

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Environmental Supervisor may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of an Environmental Supervisor, based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review, will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights: Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory 
                                       Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and professional development as they have provided knowledge of: scientific research procedures and sampling techniques sufficient to conduct environmental studies; ecological systems including urban, terrestrial, fresh water and marine systems as well as biology of local plants, animal, and bird communities to determine potential effects of projects on these environments, make recommendations for alternatives, and develop mitigations; methods of water and waste water treatment sufficient to make recommendations for improvements, discuss alternatives, and respond to inquiries; characteristics of effluents sufficient to determine if existing conditions are in violation of pollution laws, project long term effects, and recommend alternatives; methods to eliminate, reduce, control or mitigate pollutants, such as discharges into the ocean, surface water or ground water, noise pollution from aircrafts, vehicles, facilities or construction activities, and other emissions to determine feasibility of physical or procedural alternatives to minimize adverse effects; technical documents such as EIR, EIS, Categorical Exemption, and other related documents sufficient to interpret information and determine when to refer to these documents; regional environmental issues to respond to inquiries, meet and confer with regional environmental organizations, provide expert testimony at public hearings, and provide advice to management; current environmental issues such as alternative fuels and renewable energy; scientific and legal terminology sufficient to read and understand scientific and technical reports related to environmental issues; functions of local, state and federal agencies sufficient to determine jurisdiction in a situation; local, state, and federal ordinances and laws sufficient to evaluate proposed projects and determine compliance with these regulations; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures including Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) responsibilities and Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) as they relate to subordinate personnel; principles and practices of supervision including assigning, prioritizing, delegating, reviewing, motivating, training, evaluating, and disciplining employees; and the ability to: work effectively within the political and organizational setting of local, state or federal governments; analyze complex, technical and scientific reports, statistical data, procedures, laws, and literature related to environmental issues and explain information to non-technical personnel; make independent recommendations; organize, plan, and schedule multiple work activities; communicate orally sufficient to extract technical information through oral questioning, provide expert testimony at public hearings, negotiate agreements between public and private entities, and present educational and scientific information on environmental issues to the public and environmental advocates; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of AUGUST 6, 2018 to AUGUST 17, 2018.

Prior to the interview, applicants will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of an Environmental Supervisor. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Please note that applicants must complete the advisory essay and meet minimum qualifications as stated on this bulletin in order to be considered further in the examination process.

The advisory essay will be administered on-line. Applicants invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps needed to complete the on-line advisory essay. Applicants will be required to complete the on-line advisory essay on June 23, 2018. Additional instructions will be sent via e-mail. Applicants who fail to complete the advisory essay as instructed may be disqualified.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a content validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Code Class 7304 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .05-25-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

