ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE INSPECTOR

                   Class Code:     4292
                       Open Date:  08-05-16
REVISED: 08-16-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$62,661 to $91,642

NOTES:

1. In some positions, higher salaries are paid for night work.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Environmental Compliance Inspector monitors and investigates environmental compliance which may include illicit discharges and illicit connections, and performs field tests of harmful liquids, gases and solids found in the public right-of-way, storm drain system, waterways, and receiving waters; performs health hazard determinations of materials and substances found on public property or in the public right-of-way; inspects construction site operations and industrial and commercial facilities for conformance with solid resources, stormwater and pretreatment regulations and contract terms; prepares investigation reports for criminal cases and provides court testimony; oversees the remediation of chemical spills and abandoned chemicals; enforces applicable Los Angeles Municipal Code (LAMC), State, and Federal regulations governing proper management and disposal of solid resources, solid and liquid industrial wastes and other discharges to wastewater systems and the environment; conducts inspections of biosolids beneficial use sites to ensure compliance with all applicable regulations and contractual obligations; inspects solid waste facilities, solid waste collection operations, and solid waste hauling companies to ensure compliance with contract requirements, applicable regulations and LAMC provisions; may be required to carry out various duties as a public officer, such as serve warrants, issue citations, and make arrests; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/ MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience in a position at the level of Laboratory Technician in physical or chemical testing, in wastewater and/or stormwater treatment, or in explaining or enforcing environmental health laws, ordinances, or regulations pertaining to wastewater and/or stormwater treatment; or
2. Completion of 24 semester or 36 quarter units from an accredited college or university in biology, chemistry, environmental science, biochemistry, solid waste management technology, water supply technology, stormwater or wastewater treatment technology, or engineering.  

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION     

In accordance with Charter Section 1010(b) and Civil Service Commission Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training in one or more of the following areas. Only persons possessing the following may be considered for appointment to fill such positions:

1. Possession of a California Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training (P.O.S.T.) Penal Code Section 832 Certificate (Arrest and Firearms Course).
2. Current registration as a Registered Environmental Health Specialist with the California Department of Public Health.
3. Possession of a current Hazardous Waste Operations and Emergency Response Standard (HAZWOPERS) certification (40-hour training), or a Hazardous Materials Specialist (HAZMAT) certification, both as certified by the California Specialized Training Institute, Office of Emergency Services.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 must list course titles, number of units, school and date completed in the Supplemental Questions section of the application. 
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency.  A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
5. Applicants wishing to be considered for Selective Certification must attach a copy of the specified document(s) to the online 
application at the time of filing. The document(s) must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the document(s) are attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, they will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the documents. Applicants wishing to be considered for Selective Certification who fail to submit the document(s) at the time of filing by attaching them to the online application will not be considered for Selective Certification.  
6. Upon appointment, an Environmental Compliance Inspector will be required to furnish an automobile, properly insured, for use in City service.  Mileage will be paid on the basis of established rates.
7. An employee in this position may be subject to weekend, evening and holiday work assignments.
8. Incumbents in some positions may be required to attend the Los Angeles Police Academy for additional training.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted online. When you are viewing the online job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. Online job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.



NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from August 5, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying 
                  Essay  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Advisory
                  Interview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying written multiple-choice test, an advisory essay and an interview. The qualifying written test will consist of multiple-choice questions in which candidates may be examined for knowledge of: Federal, State, and local regulations including requirements of the City of Los Angeles governing pretreatment, treatment, control, and discharge of industrial wastes or non-stormwater discharges; methods and installation, operation and maintenance of pretreatment facilities used in the control of industrial wastes; inspection methods, sampling and testing procedures used in testing wastewater and industrial waste, and non-stormwater discharges; industrial chemicals, processes, and plumbing sufficient to determine compliance with applicable codes; basic chemistry and physics applicable to industrial waste activities; materials and equipment used in the treatment, discharge, and control of industrial wastes; methods, testing procedures, materials, and equipment used in the application of chemicals used in the treatment of wastewater and industrial wastes; safety practices and procedures, regulations, and measures, including Hazards Material Communication sufficient to ensure own safety and the safety of others; and the ability to read and interpret construction plans, specifications, sewer records, and storm drain maps; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

On the same day as the qualifying multiple-choice test, candidates will also be required to prepare some written material relating to the duties of an Environmental Compliance Inspector. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration of the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory essay will be disqualified. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their advisory essay responses. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the qualifying written multiple-choice test and advisory essay, both of which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2016, in Los Angeles.

Passing Score for the Qualifying Written Test 

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written may be set either above or below 70%. 

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's qualifications as they demonstrate the knowledge of: Federal, State, and local regulations including requirements of the City of Los Angeles governing pretreatment, treatment, control, and discharge of industrial wastes or non-stormwater discharges; methods and installation, operation and maintenance of pretreatment facilities used in the control of industrial wastes; inspection methods, sampling and testing procedures used in testing wastewater and industrial waste, and non-stormwater discharges; basic principles of sanitary landfill and transfer station; safety practices and procedures, regulations, and measures, including Hazards Material Communication sufficient to ensure own safety and the safety of others; and the ability to: inspect pretreatment facilities, measuring and recording devices, sewers, storm drains, channels, watercourses for conformance with specifications, provisions for permits and to determine the source of pollution; interpret laboratory reports; use test equipment for monitoring, sampling, and analysis of industrial waste and non-stormwater discharges; explain and enforce laws, ordinances and regulations in a clear, concise and effective manner; prepare clear and concise reports; maintain accurate records related to investigations, audits, and recommendations; deal tactfully, effectively and persuasively with City employees, external agencies, employees of commercial and industrial forms, the general public, and others; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates who pass the qualifying written multiple-choice test and complete the advisory essay will be invited to participate in the interview. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, this written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. Incumbents in some positions may be subject to additional background checks by the Los Angeles Police Department and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. 
3. The incumbents of some positions in this class may be required to pass an annual or periodic work fitness evaluation to determine their eligibility for continued employment in this class.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin. 
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
7. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list. 
8. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 4292. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .08-05-16 REV 08-16-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

