EQUIPMENT SUPERVISOR

Class Code:       3527
Open Date:  04-13-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$84,918 to $99,931 and $92,206 to $108,513
The salary in the Harbor Department is $87,111 to $102,479.

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Equipment Supervisor assigns, reviews and evaluates the work of employees engaged in the operation of construction equipment when excavating, backfilling, loading, compacting, mixing and moving earth and other materials on construction, maintenance, composting, mulching or landfill monitoring projects; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION 

Four years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as an Equipment Operator, Power Shovel Operator or in a class at that level operating heavy construction equipment.

PROCESS NOTES 

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION 

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training in one or more of the following areas. Only persons possessing the following at the time of filing may be considered for appointment to fill such positions.

A valid state certified Crane Operator Certification.

NOTE:

The copy of the certification must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certification is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit a copy of their certification within the time required will not be considered further for positions requiring the certification.






WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the online job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL 26, 2018.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights: Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's background and experience as they have provided the knowledge of: operation and use of tools and equipment used in landfill, excavation, waterway, and roadway construction and maintenance; methods and procedures used in construction, fence building, road grading, weed mowing, and pipe laying; Cal-OSHA and departmental safety regulations, principles, and practices; first aid; types of crew work assignments; supervisory principles, practices and techniques including delegating, planning, and time management; supervisory responsibilities including Equal Employment Opportunity responsibilities, Memoranda of Understanding of subordinate personnel, and the grievance process; and the ability to: read, interpret, and understand blueprints and work plans for projects; use on-the-job training techniques; estimate personnel, material, tools, and equipment needs for projects; communicate in a clear, concise and tactful manner in order to give work-related information, work assignments, instructions, and answer questions; effectively and tactfully interact with crew members, management, the public, and others; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JUNE 11, 2018 to JUNE 22, 2018.

NOTES:

1. The examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY 
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.


Class Code 3527 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04-13-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess



