EQUIPMENT OPERATOR

Class Code:       3525
Open Date:  04-14-17
REVISED: 04-27-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$90,201 and $97,551 (flat-rated) 
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $88,405 and $93,918 (flat-rated).

Higher salaries are paid for work on special equipment, night work, or in a work environment that may be noisy and/or contains unpleasant materials and odors. 

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

An Equipment Operator operates tractors, tandem graders, rollers, scrapers, backhoes, track and wheel loaders, hydro and rigid boom cranes, grinders, trommel screens, compost turners, profilers, pavers, and other construction and maintenance equipment. This equipment is used in weed abatement programs, compost and mulch facilities, construction, repair and maintenance of sidewalks, access ramps, streetscape installations, streets, roads, sewers, storm drains, canals, and water and power infrastructures; compacts soil and debris at refuse disposal sites; makes running repairs and adjustments to equipment; and may lubricate equipment and assist crew members on job site.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience in operating construction or road maintenance equipment, including tractors and cranes; and
2. A valid California Class A or B driver's license and valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles.

Satisfactory completion of one of the following courses may be substituted for a maximum of six months experience:
a. Heavy Equipment Operations and Maintenance course given by Los Angeles Trade Technical College; or
b. Heavy Duty Equipment Operator training course given by LAUSD; or
c. Equipment Operator training course given by either the City of Los Angeles Public Works Bureau of Street Services or Bureau of Sanitation; or
d. The National Commission for the Certification of Crane Operators (NCCCO) Mobile Crane Operator training course with the City of Los Angeles Department of Water and Power.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met. 
2. In addition to the regular City application, applicants using City experience MUST submit a Los Angeles "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form, which must indicate the percentage of time performing the work that is claimed as qualifying experience. Applicants must list all types of equipment operated when describing experience. Applicants may attach the completed VWE form to their online application at the time of filing or will have seven (7) calendar days from the online submission date to e-mail a copy of their completed VWE form, including the required signatures, to per.appdocs@lacity.org. The subject line of your e-mail must include the exam title, your name and indicate it is a VWE. In the body of your e-mail, you must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number and contact phone number. Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
3. Applicants wishing to substitute training for experience must submit a copy of their certificate of completion of the applicable courses at the time of filing. The copy of their certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.
4. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their driving record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
5. Candidates will be asked to submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles Section 1808.1 prior to appointment.
6. A valid Class A or B driver's license with T, X, N, and/or P may be required for some positions.
7. Additional equipment operator's licenses required by Cal-OSHA may be required for some positions prior to appointment. Employing departments may indicate on certification notifications that only those eligibles currently possessing the required license(s) will be considered for appointment.
8. Some positions at the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power may require the completion of Hazwoper Site Worker training as defined in California Code of Regulations Title 8, Section 5192, Subsection(e).
SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010(b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training. Only persons possessing the following at the time of filing may be considered for appointment to fill such positions:

 A valid Crane Operator certification for Small and Large Telescopic Mobile Cranes license issued by the NCCCO. 

NOTE:

The copy of the certification must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certification is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit a copy of their certification within the time required will not be considered further for positions requiring the certification.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTES:

1. All application materials must be completed at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.
2. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter if you apply on-line.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 4, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from April 14, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
                                        Pre-Trip Safety Inspection Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Pass/Fail
								           Performance Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%
 
The examination will consist of a qualifying written test and performance test which will include a pre-trip inspection test and a weighted performance test. In the qualifying written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: Cal/OSHA rules and regulations as they relate to construction equipment and personnel requirements; California Vehicle Code, Title 13, as it relates to transporting equipment; heavy-wheeled and track-type equipment, including their attachments, functions, capabilities, limitations, and preventative maintenance requirements sufficient to ensure proper, safe, and efficient operation; hand signals used in construction and equipment operations sufficient to give and receive directions; types of underground and overhead utilities sufficient to safely perform work; compaction of materials sufficient to ensure proper settlement of materials; backfilling methods used to fill work site excavations; rolling procedures sufficient to ensure a quality finish; rigging and hoisting procedures sufficient to set pipe in place, lift loads safely and properly, or set towers; and the ability to safely and efficiently operate and maneuver equipment with minimal instructions or supervision; make decisions regarding equipment use and safety procedures; change equipment attachments under a variety of conditions; effectively communicate with others in order to provide information or instruction; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, JUNE 17, 2017, and SUNDAY, JUNE 25, 2017, in Los Angeles.


Passing Score for the Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying written test may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying written test in order to be invited to the pre-trip safety inspection portion of the performance test. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the pre-trip safety inspection test, and will be e-mailed additional information regarding the pre-trip safety inspection test portion of the performance test.

During the pre-trip safety inspection test, candidates will be required to perform a pre-trip safety inspection of construction and road maintenance equipment, which may include heavy-wheeled equipment, track-type equipment, and truck-trailer combination. The pre-trip safety inspection may include an in-cab and exterior inspection, checking of air brake systems, engine compartments, and other critical items. Only candidates who receive a passing score during the pre-trip safety inspection test will be scheduled for the performance test.

Candidates who fail the pre-trip safety inspection test will not be allowed to participate in the performance test, and will be considered as having failed the entire examination. Those candidates who achieve a passing score in the pre-trip safety inspection test will be invited to the performance test.

The examination score will be based entirely on the weighted performance test. During the performance test, candidates may be required to demonstrate their knowledge of: Cal/OSHA rules and regulations as they relate to construction equipment and personnel requirements; heavy-wheeled and track-type equipment functions, capabilities, and limitations as required to use the appropriate piece of equipment for a particular job; rigging and hoisting procedures sufficient to set pipe in place, lift loads safely and properly, or set towers; and the ability to safely and efficiently operate and maneuver equipment with minimal instructions or supervision; make decisions regarding equipment use and safety procedures; change equipment attachments under a variety of conditions; effectively communicate with others in order to provide information or instruction; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities. Candidates who are unable to operate any of the equipment safely or who demonstrate unsafe driving practices will not be allowed to complete the performance test and will be considered as having failed the entire examination.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the performance test.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study and as provided by the Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate review.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. A final average score of 70% in the performance test is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. Based on City policy, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
7. The incumbents of some positions in this class may be required to pass an annual or periodic work fitness evaluation to determine their eligibility for continued employment in this class.
8. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
9. Candidates will have only one opportunity to take the pre-trip safety inspection and performance test.
10. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a city position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
 
Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3525. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04-14-17

Class Code 3525. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04-14-17 REV 04-27-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

