EQUIPMENT SPECIALIST
Class Code:        3734
  Open Date:   11-17-17
 																					 (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$62,744 to $91,746 and $69,530 to $101,685
The salary range in the Department of Water and Power is $76,713 to $95,296 and $84,981 to $105,590.

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
3. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

An Equipment Specialist determines departmental equipment needs; prepares specifications; inspects equipment received from vendors; makes recommendations in connection with the purchase, operation, and maintenance of a wide variety of transportation, construction, fire, recreation, and park maintenance equipment; or participates in and supervises such work; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Four years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as an Equipment Mechanic or in a class at that level which provides experience in the maintenance and repair of transportation, construction, fire, or park maintenance equipment; or
2. Four years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles in a class at the level of Management Analyst which provides experience in the analysis of equipment repair activities or in the analysis of either the operation or maintenance and repair of transportation, construction, fire, or park maintenance equipment; or
3. Six years of full-time paid experience in the maintenance and repair of transportation, construction, fire, or park maintenance equipment, or in the analysis of either the operation or maintenance and repair of transportation, construction, fire or park maintenance equipment.
		
Successful completion of sixty semester units or ninety quarter units from an accredited college or university which includes at least 12 semester or 18 quarter units of courses in administration, engineering, mathematics, or physics may be substituted for a maximum of two years of the required experience. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California Class B driver's license and valid medical certificate. Prior to appointment, all candidates must submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1801.1.  Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Applicants who wish to substitute education for experience, must list their school name and location, total number of units completed, and completion dates. In addition, for the courses in administration, engineering, mathematics, or physics, applicants must list the course titles, number of semester or quarter units, and completion dates for EACH course claimed as qualifying.
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accredited agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. Online job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.



NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from November 17, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.
        
SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Essay. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
																			Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an interview.  In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated:  Analytical Ability, Attention to Detail, Interpersonal Skills, Shares Knowledge and Information, Safety Focus, including knowledge of: applicable provisions of local and federal safety rules, regulations and practices related to the safe operation of equipment, such as those issued by the American National Standards Institute and/or Cal/OSHA; applicable federal, state, and local laws, rules, and standards related to the safe operation of all equipment and protection of all equipment users, such as those issued by the California Highway Patrol for the operation of public transit and/or under the Americans with Disabilities Act, and Job Knowledge including knowledge of: basic mechanical principles involving stress, materials, hydraulics, and design in order to select proper equipment specifications; operating principles of vehicle and equipment systems, such as brakes and steering in order to write specifications, assess functionality, and ensure quality of equipment; regulatory agencies such as the Air Quality Management District, California Air Resources Board, and the Energy Policy Act, and how new environmental regulations will impact equipment use to ensure compliance with these regulations, and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Equipment Specialist.

Prior to the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of an Equipment Specialist. This material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. The Advisory Essay will be administered online. Candidates invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to complete the online Advisory Essay, and will be required to do so by the date provided in the instructions sent to them via email. Candidates who fail to complete the online Advisory Essay may be disqualified. It is anticipated that the online advisory essay will be administered JANUARY 8, 2018 to JANUARY 15, 2018.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JANUARY 29, 2018 to FEBRUARY 9, 2018.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.  
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3734 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11-17-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


