EQUIPMENT MECHANIC (Automotive Mechanic)

Class Code: 3711
Open Date: 05-18-18
                                              (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$78,675 (flat-rated); $80,972 (flat-rated); and $87,586 (flat-rated)
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $91,350 (flat-rated); $93,020 (flat-rated); and $97,300 (flat-rated)
The salary in the Harbor Department is $81,760 (flat-rated) 

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
3. In most of these positions, higher salaries are paid for work on special equipment or in work environments that may be noisy and/or contain unpleasant materials or odors.
4. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

An Equipment Mechanic does skilled mechanical work in the maintenance and repair of automotive transportation equipment and inspects such equipment to determine needed repairs.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Completion of a recognized apprenticeship as an automotive mechanic; or
2. Completion of the Automotive Service Excellence (ASE) Master Technician Certification for Automobile Repair; or
3. Four years of full-time paid experience in automotive mechanic work; or
4. Satisfactory completion of a two-year program in automotive or truck mechanics from an accredited community college, trade or technical school and two years of full-time paid experience in automotive mechanic work.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 or #2 must submit an Apprenticeship Certificate as an automotive mechanic or a valid Automotive Service Excellence (ASE) Master Technician Certification for Automobile Repair Certificate. The copy of the Certificate must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the Certificate is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it, and WILL NOT be considered further in this examination.
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #4 must list their school name and location, and type of program completed in the Education Section of the on-line application. Applicants who fail to provide this information on their application will not be considered further in this examination.
4. A valid California Class C driver's license is required prior to appointment. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
5. Some positions may require a valid California Class A or Class B driver's license and valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles, prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). Candidates will be asked to submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1801.1 prior to appointment.
6. Equipment Mechanics may be required to furnish their own tools.
7. Some positions may require obtaining a forklift and/or crane operator's license through "In-House" training and testing.
8. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency.  A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
9. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of completion of an accredited two-year program in automotive or truck mechanics.

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION 

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training. Only persons possessing the following at the time of filing may be considered for appointment to fill such positions:

1. A valid California Bureau of Automotive Repair Lamp Adjuster License; or
2. A valid Brake Adjuster License; or 
3. A valid Qualified Test and Repair Mechanic License.

NOTE:

Applicants that desire to be considered for selective certification must specify the license, including the state certified license number, issue date and expiration date in the Supplemental Questions section of the on-line application. Applicants who fail to provide the information at the time of filing will not be considered further for positions requiring selective certification.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin. Applications submitted before the start of the filing period will not be accepted. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed below:

From 8:00 a.m. Friday, May 25, 2018 to 11:59 p.m., Thursday, May 31, 2018
From 8:00 a.m. Friday, October 12, 2018 to 11:59 p.m., Thursday, October 18, 2018
From 8:00 a.m. Friday, March 15, 2019 to 11:59 p.m., Thursday, March 21, 2019

The examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. Filing periods may change without prior notice or additional dates may be added, as needed, at a later date. For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen on the dates noted in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the weighted multiple-choice test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight: Multiple-Choice Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of a weighted multiple-choice test administered and proctored on-line. In the on-line multiple-choice test, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: basic electrical and electronic theory used to diagnose, test, and repair automotive electrical systems and accessories; the operation of vehicular cooling systems, heating systems, and air, hydraulic, and electro-mechanical brake systems; the mechanical principles and components of gasoline and diesel combustion engines; the functions of transmission components, including automatic and clutch; tires, wheels, and wheel alignment steering components; how gas, diesel, liquid petroleum gas (LPG), and methanol fuel systems react with combustible engines; drive line principles and components; maintenance, safe handling, and testing of vehicle batteries; the basic design, construction, and principles of operation of internal combustion engines, charging systems and related components; materials, machinery, tools and equipment used to inspect, test, diagnose, repair, maintain, tune-up and overhaul automotive equipment; safety procedures and equipment required when working with or around automotive equipment in a repair shop; basic arithmetic; and the ability to: diagnose, adjust, repair, and replace electrical system components, fuel system components, and final drive components; determine damaged, broken, or missing components of transportation equipment using sight, touch/feel, smell, and hearing; read and interpret reports, manuals, technical service bulletins, vehicle history files, technical drawings, safety procedures, and schematics used in wiring diagrams, manufacturers' manuals, and specifications; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

The multiple-choice test will be proctored and administered on-line during a single session. Candidates invited to participate in the on-line multiple-choice test will be able to take the test from any location using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will receive an email from the City of Los Angeles outlining the dates and specific steps on how to take the multiple-choice test on-line. It is anticipated that candidates invited to participate in the first administration of the weighted multiple-choice test will be able to take the test on-line between FRIDAY, JULY 20, 2018 and FRIDAY, JULY 27, 2018. Candidates who do not complete and submit the remote proctored multiple-choice test on-line using a computer by the specified date and time will not be considered further in this examination. 

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the multiple-choice test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
5. You may take the Equipment Mechanic multiple-choice test only once every 365 days. If you have taken the Equipment Mechanic multiple-choice test during an open filing period in the Personnel Department within the last 12 months, you may not file for this examination at this time. 
6. Your rank on the employment list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of the examination are merged onto one list.
7. Your name may be removed from the open competitive list after six (6) months.
8. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
9. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
10. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
11. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3711 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .05-18-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

