EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT AIRPORTS
Class Code:       9186
Open Date:  06-09-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$129,873 to $184,788

NOTES:


1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

Under the general direction of the General Manager Airports or Deputy General Manager Airports, an Executive Assistant Airports acts as a project manager for special projects or programs; assists in executive and administrative matters; represents the Department before City officials, and other agencies; may act as the executive liaison between the Board of Airport Commissioners and executive management; and does related work.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid experience with the Los Angeles World Airports in a position at the level of Senior Management Analyst II, supervising administrative support functions, public and/or community relations programs, human resource functions, or acting as a direct staff assistant to a Deputy General Manager, Airports or General Manager, Airports.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Executive Assistant Airports Training and Experience Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Executive Assistant Airports Training and Experience Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Training and Experience Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Applicants must indicate the appropriate pay grade for each position listed on their application or the application may not be processed.
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and Training and Experience Questionnaires will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTES:

1. All applications and Training and Experience Questionnaires must be completed at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.
2. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Training and Experience Questionnaires must be submitted on-line by THURSDAY, JUNE 22, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of training and experience, wherein candidates will be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background, and personal qualifications and abilities.  Emphasis will be placed on the candidate's background and experience as they provide the knowledge of: principles and practices applicable to the organization, management, and financial activities of a major airport; principles and practices applicable to the management and administration of a large organization; the functions and interrelationships of the Department of Airports and its divisions; City personnel, financial, and administrative rules, policies, and procedures that affect Department of Airports operations; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity policies as they relate to subordinate employees; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including  delegating, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending and evaluating the work of subordinates; and the ability to successfully investigate various situations and obtain necessary information regarding issues impacting the Department of Airports; exercise independent judgment and make critical work-related decisions in order to accomplish the goals and objectives necessary to support ongoing operations; plan, direct, control and coordinate the work of groups of employees engaged in a variety of airport related projects, programs, and activities; effectively communicate in writing and prepare clear, concise, and comprehensive reports; interact tactfully and work effectively with City managers and officials, business officials, community leaders, and others to facilitate and maintain meaningful relationships with stakeholders; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Training and Experience Questionnaires for all candidates who meet the requirements will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation.  The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications as described on the candidate's Training and Experience Questionnaire.  Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the expert review panel.

NOTES:
 	
1.  As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

	THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
	ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 9186 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06-09-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

