FIELD ENGINEERING AIDE

Class Code:       7228
Open Date:  09-23-16
Revised: 08-09-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$71,451 to $91,224
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $78,801 to $97,906.	

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Field Engineering Aide performs sub-professional land surveying work or works with engineering personnel.  A Field Engineering Aide may be required to climb fences, work in confined spaces, work with and around hot asphalt, and carry surveying equipment long distances over various types of terrain; also may be trained to operate Data Collectors, and to set up and operate GPS receivers.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Successful completion of high school or college-level courses in algebra, geometry, trigonometry and 3 semester or 4 quarter units in plane surveying, and one course in the following: drafting or computer aided drafting; or
2. One year of full-time paid experience as a member of a survey party.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete a Field Engineering Aide Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Field Engineering Aide Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Applicants qualifying under Requirement #1 above must list course titles, number of units, school, and date completed in the Supplemental Questions section of the application.
4. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide proof of qualifying coursework.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin. Applications submitted before the start of the filing period will not be accepted. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed below: 

From 8:00 am Tuesday, January 15, 2019 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, January 17, 2019
From 8:00 am Tuesday, August 27, 2019 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, August 29, 2019

The examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. Filing periods may change without prior notice or additional dates may be added, as needed, at a later date. For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen on the dates noted in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin. In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received.  Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Field Engineering Aide may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Field Engineering Aide, based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review, will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of a multiple-choice written test in which candidates may be examined for knowledge of: surveying principles and practices; survey hand signals; safe and appropriate use of surveying tools, instruments and equipment; basic traffic safety; engineering mathematics including algebra, geometry, and trigonometry and reading decimal units; numerical and descriptive terminology used in rough drafts and written instructions; the ability to follow written instructions; communicate effectively and tactfully with co-workers, supervisors, and the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

ALLOWABLE CALCULATORS

Each candidate may bring one hand-held, non-programmable, non-qwerty, self-contained scientific calculator.  A voltage supply will not be available in the examination room. A cellular phone with calculator functions will not be allowed.

An information sheet has been developed to assist candidates in determining the type of calculators that will be allowed during the written test. The information sheet is available online at http://per.lacity.org/exams/7228GUIDE.pdf.

The next written test will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2019 in Los Angeles. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test. Additional test dates may be added as needed. 

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. You may take the Field Engineering Aide written test only once every 365 days.  If you have taken the Field Engineering Aide written test during an open filing period in the Personnel Department within the last 12 months, you may not file for this examination at this time.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. Based on City policy, before being hired in one of these positions, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol screening test.
6. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. Your rank on the employment list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of the examination are merged onto one list.
8. Your name may be removed from the open competitive list after 6 months.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7228 CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  09-23-16 REV 08-09-18


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


