FINANCIAL ANALYST
Class Code:       1549
Open Date:  02-02-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$68,159 to $100,370 and $78,989 to $115,487

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. Annual salary is at the beginning of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the stating salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 

DUTIES

A Financial Analyst analyzes proposals for contracts, leases and franchises; prepares, evaluates, and creates financial models and documents; evaluates and summarizes in writing financial and statistical reports; assists with planning, monitoring, administering and managing debt; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a major in finance, economics or business administration; and two years of full-time paid professional experience in either:
a.	Conducting evaluations of the financial strength of companies using financial statements, performance statistics, credit ratings or similar information; or
b. Performing financial analysis of business or commercial development proposals to determine their financial viability and rate of return; or
2. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university and two years of full-time paid professional experience in financial analysis, investment analysis or economic analysis with an investment bank, commercial bank, financial advisor or investment advisor listed in the Bond Buyer's Municipal Marketplace Directory.

A Master's degree from an accredited four-year college or university, in finance, economics, or business administration may be substituted for one year of the required experience. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants lacking six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Financial Analyst Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Financial Analyst Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to submit the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered in this examination and their application will not be processed.
3. Applicants must list their school name and location, type of degree earned and major in the Education Section of the application. Applicants who fail to provide this information on their application will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
4. Applicants wishing to substitute education for one year of the required experience must list their school name and location, Master's degree and major in the Education section of the application.
5. Some positions require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
6. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accredited agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited Institutions 08-21-08.pdf.  
7. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from a recognized four-year college or university in order to obtain that position.  Therefore, to be considered "professional", non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
8. Experience in evaluating rates of return on investments is desired.
9. Experience in financial modeling is desired.
10. General knowledge of financial terms and principles, strong quantitative skills, a high degree of skill working with Excel and financial enterprise software systems, and experience performing financial analysis on capital investment proposals, public and private enterprise, capital projects and municipal entitles are highly desirable.
11. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.
WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations. 

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be completed at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from February 2, 2018 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of candidates file for this examination, an expert review committee may be assembled to evaluate each candidate's qualifications for the job of Financial Analyst. In this evaluation, the expert review committee will consider the information in both the candidates' City employment applications and their Qualifications Questionnaires. Those candidates considered by the expert review committee as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the job of Financial Analyst, based solely on the information presented to the committee, will be invited to the interview.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with the Qualifications Review and Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the candidate's background, training and experience as they have provided the knowledge of: principles of economics, and methods and techniques of financial and economic analysis; ability to: perform independent research; use Excel to create financial models and prepare statistical reports such as variance, trend analysis, and forecasts; analyze, interpret and assemble data and make sound recommendations regarding economic factors affecting contracts, major economic programs, leases, and construction projects, as well as financial statements prepared according to general accepted accounting principles; prepare oral and written reports with logical and convincing recommendations; communicate and interact tactfully and effectively with a variety of individuals; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

As part of their evaluation of each candidate's overall job qualifications, the interview board will consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Candidates may expect the interviewers to discuss this information during the interviews. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the interview panel.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of MARCH 26, 2018 to APRIL 6, 2018.

NOTES:

1. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review period may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice: 

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY 
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.




Class Code 1549 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .02-02-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to:  http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


