




FIREARMS EXAMINER
 
                                                                                                    Class Code:       2233
                                                                                                    Open Date:  06-24-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$81,160 to $118,661

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 

DUTIES

A Firearms Examiner is a civilian employee of the Police Department who examines and identifies firearms, weapons, cartridges, bullets, and similar evidence in criminal investigations; collects physical evidence at crime scenes; analyzes and reconstructs the events occurring at crime scenes; conducts complete scientific tests of firearms evidence using laboratory equipment; prepares documentation and reports on the results of the collection and analysis of evidence; testifies in court concerning the results of examinations; provides expert testimony on general firearms capability and examination methodology; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university; and
2. Four years of full-time paid experience in examining and identifying firearms, weapons, ammunition, and similar evidence, including court experience as an examiner of firearms evidence in a criminal proceeding.

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular on-line City application, all candidates must complete a Firearms Examiner Training & Experience Questionnaire at the time of filing.  The Firearms Examiner Training & Experience Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the on-line City Application.  Applicants who fail to complete the Training & Experience Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license.  Candidate may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations, and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. A major in physical or natural science is desired but not required.
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
5. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and the Firearms Examiner Training and Experience (T&E) Questionnaires WILL ONLY BE ACCEPTED ONLINE. When you are viewing the online job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  Online job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and re-open the following workday.  This examination will remain open until sufficient applications are received and may final close without prior notice.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Assessment of Training & Experience . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of training and experience wherein candidates may be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, and professional background as they have provided the skills, knowledge, and abilities necessary to perform the duties of a Firearms Examiner. Candidates may be examined for knowledge of: the makes, models, and characteristics of domestic and foreign firearms and ammunitions; equipment used to test and identify firearms and ammunitions; principles and practices of firearm and ammunition identification and comparison; operations and handling of firearms and ammunition; laboratory techniques used in the performance of microscopic examinations as they pertain to firearms and ammunitions; rules of evidence and court room procedures; principles, practices, and procedures of general laboratory safety; and the ability to: use laboratory equipment, especially microscopes, scales, and firearm testing devices; perform microscopic examinations and comparisons; communicate effectively for the purpose of conducting training classes and explaining technical aspects of ballistics and firearms examination to non-technical people; testify effectively in court regarding the findings of test performed and concerning general firearms examination science; deal tactfully and effectively with coworkers, including sworn law enforcement personnel, public officials, and the public; maintain records, prepare documentation on the results of the collection and analysis of evidence, and prepare reports on analyzed evidence which may be used in court; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

The candidate's responses to the Firearms Examiner Training and Experience Questionnaire and job application information will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the review panel.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at the following: http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. You may take this examination once every 180 calendar days.  Your name may be removed from the open competitive eligible list after 180 calendar days.
4. A final score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.

NOTICE:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN 
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 2233CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06-24-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

