



GARAGE ATTENDANT
Class Code:       3531
Open Date:  01-30-15
 (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$39,776 to $49,402 and $42,866 to $53,264
The salary range in the Department of Water and Power is $49,673 to $61,721; $59,946 to $77,068; and $61,888 to $79,573.

NOTES:

1. In some positions, a higher salary is paid for night work.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES 

A Garage Attendant does general servicing and lubricating of cars, trucks and motorcycles; shuttling of passengers; parking cars; washing and waxing; may make minor repairs to vehicles; assists equipment mechanics by removing and replacing defective radiators, hoses, fan belts, and batteries; replaces tires on cars and trucks in the shop and in the field; may operate a light to heavy duty tow truck; may make minor repairs to vehicles; may install or remove various interior and exterior vehicle equipment; and may perform other non-skilled tasks as required and does other non-skilled tasks. Apprenticeships in various automotive crafts are available in some Garage Attendant positions.

REQUIREMENT

One year of full time paid experience servicing automotive vehicles.

NOTE:

1. A valid California's driver's license is required prior to appointment.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if within the last 36 months they were convicted of a major moving violation, if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
2. Some positions may require a valid California Class B driver's license prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications WILL ONLY BE ACCEPTED ON-LINE from 8:00 a.m., Tuesday, February 10, 2015 to Midnight, Thursday, February 12, 2015. Applications submitted before the start of the filing period will not be accepted. When you are viewing the online job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.   On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the following three days: from 8:00 A.M., TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015; WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2015; TO MIDNIGHT, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2015.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from January 30, 2015 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 


SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight: Written Test. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of a written test comprised of multiple-choice questions, in which candidates may be examined for knowledge of: safe use of hand and air tools, such as pliers, wrenches, sockets sets, grease guns, impact wrench, air tire changer; safe operation of lifting equipment/devices, such as hoists, floor jacks, and safety stands; various types of lubricants, oils, and greases used in performing routine vehicle maintenance; routine shop or garage maintenance such as proper use and storage of cleaning solvents, general shop clean up; tire maintenance and repair procedures, including the safe and proper use of tire repair tools and supplies; routine battery maintenance; safe charging or jump starting procedures, such as locating positive/negative terminals; connecting cables to proper terminals; ability to: recognize major engine components and accessories on vehicles; check the fluid level of various operating systems, such as the cooling system, brakes, and power steering; perform routine vehicle maintenance; safely operate a variety of light vehicles; read maps and/or interpret written directional instructions; read and interpret information from written materials; maintain routine written records or reports on vehicle repairs and maintenance; follow basic instructions, verbally or in writing; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified late by e-mail later of the time and location of the written test, which will be held in a single, half-day session in Los Angeles on SATURDAY, MARCH 28, 2015. 

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lactiy.org/exams/verity_disability.pdf. 
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.

NOTICE:  If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.
THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 3531. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  01-30-15

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

