GARDENER CARETAKER

Class Code:       3141
Open Date:  10-05-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$39,672 to $57,983
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $44,474 to $64,957.

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Gardener Caretaker does gardening, landscape construction, and maintenance work in parks, playgrounds, Citywide traffic islands, medians, slopes, grade separations and other landscaped areas. 

NOTE:

Gardener Caretakers may be required to work weekends and holidays and can be reassigned to work any location in the City. They may be required to work overtime and in bad weather. 

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid gardening experience; or
2. 1040 hours of paid experience as a Special Program Assistant involved in performing gardening, park maintenance or landscape work for the City of Los Angeles.

Completion of 12 semester or 18 quarter units from an accredited college or university in gardening, agriculture, or horticulture may be substituted for one-year of full-time paid experience lacking in Requirement #1. Applicants must list their school name and location, course titles with the number of semester or quarter units, and completion dates in the Supplemental Questions Section of the on-line application at the time of filing.

PROCESS NOTES 

1. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license or Class B driver's license with a valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles, prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). For positions requiring a valid Class B driver's license, candidates must submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicle CVC Section 1808.1 prior to appointment.
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 must submit a copy of their City of Los Angeles "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form with the required signatures, verifying their experience performing gardening, park maintenance or landscape work. The form may be downloaded at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf. Applicants may attach the completed VWE form to their on-line application at the time of filing, or will have seven (7) calendar days from the on-line submission date to e-mail a copy of their completed VWE form to per.appdocs@lacity.org. The subject line of your e-mail must include the exam title, your name and indication it is a VWE. In the body of your e-mail, you must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number and contact phone number. Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination.
3. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the following dates listed below:

From 8:00 am Friday, October 5, 2018 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, October 18, 2018
From 8:00 am Friday, March 6, 2020 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, March 19, 2020

The examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. Filing periods may change without prior notice or additional dates may be added, as needed, at a later date. For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen on the dates noted in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Multiple-Choice Test. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination consists entirely of a weighted multiple-choice test administered and proctored on-line. In the on-line multiple-choice test, the following competencies may be evaluated: Self-Management, Equipment Operation, Customer Service, Teamwork, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: good watering practices; how to properly care for common types of plants, trees, grasses, and shrubs; the type of plants which should be planted based on the climate in the Los Angeles area; proper storage uses and common types of hand and power gardening tools and equipment; how to operate power equipment safely; how to use basic cleaning agents and equipment; how to use tools and equipment safely; basic arithmetic; the characteristics necessary to identify common types of plants, trees, grasses, and shrubs; soil amendments, and cleaning compounds; basic custodial tasks; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Gardener Caretaker. 

The multiple-choice test will be proctored and administered on-line during a single session. Candidates invited to participate in the on-line multiple-choice test will be able to take the test from a remote location (i.e. their home) using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection or will have the option to take the test onsite at a City facility. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the dates and specific steps on how to take the multiple-choice test on-line. It is anticipated that the remote proctored multiple-choice test will be held in DECEMBER 2018. Candidates who do not complete and submit the multiple-choice test on-line using a computer by the specified date and time will not be considered further in this examination.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Candidates may take the test only once every 24 months during the administration of the examination. Names may be removed from the open competitive eligible list after six months.
3. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
4. Incumbents of some positions in this class may be required to pass an annual or periodic fitness evaluation to determine their eligibility for continued employment in this class.
5. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
6. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
7. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
8. Based on City policy, before being hired in one of these positions, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol screening test.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3141. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-07-14


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 

Class Code 3141 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-05-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

