GENERAL SERVICES MANAGER 
Class Code:       9601
Open Date:  04-21-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY
 
$199,905 to $248,367 and $220,576 to $274,050

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
                                               
DUTIES

A General Services Manager serves as a Director or Assistant Director in a division of the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (LADWP), overseeing the activities of construction, engineering, technical, clerical, and administrative employees engaged in the design, construction, maintenance, repair, operation, and testing of LADWP's hard infrastructure (capital assets); applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills Equal Employment Opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Construction Maintenance Superintendent, Shops Superintendent, or Fleet Services Manager, or in a class at that level managing staff engaged in the construction, operations, maintenance, or repair of buildings, plants, facilities, fleet equipment, water system infrastructure or major generating station equipment.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application form, each candidate is required to complete the General Services Manager Qualification Questionnaire at the time of filing. The General Services Manager Qualification Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Question section of the City application. Candidates who fail to complete the Qualification Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicant who lack six months or less of the above experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience has been met.
3. A valid California's driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
	
WHERE TO APPLY 

Applications will only be accepted online. When you are viewing the online job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. Online job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 4, 2017.
SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
															  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination for General Services Manager will consist of an advisory essay and an interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and personal qualifications as they provide the knowledge of: Department of Water and Power processes, policies and procedures needed to oversee the activities of a large Division engaged in the design, construction, maintenance, repair, operation and testing of Power System and Water System major facilities, operation of mechanical and electrical shops, fleet and aviation services, and related engineering activities; maintenance and repair requirements for Power System and Water System construction and transportation equipment; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) and Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) as they relate to subordinate personnel; principles, practices, methods, and techniques of personnel management and public administration such as management by objective, management theories, organizational structure and organizational development; management and leadership techniques used to maximize the utilization of staff for the benefit the City and its employees; pertinent safety rules, policies and regulations including CAL/OSHA, DWP safety rules, and related City ordinances; and the ability to plan and direct work programs; direct operations under normal and emergency conditions; exercise executive direction over a large number of employees in many diverse classifications; coordinate and integrate information from multiple sources effectively in order to oversee large projects and meet the department's overall objectives; evaluate alternative proposals in relation to soundness, economic feasibility, and long-range planning; handle negotiations with the general public, contractors, and representatives of other governmental agencies and public utilities; analyze, prepare, and review the preparation of a variety of reports and cost control procedures; identify and analyze complex issues and formulate recommendations which are logical and actionable; communicate effectively, both orally and in writing, in a clear, concise and persuasive manner; deal tactfully and effectively with subordinate supervisors, department executives, elected officials, the public, and others; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail regarding the date, time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JULY 10, 2017 to JULY 21, 2017.

Candidates will be required to prepare some written material on a topic related to the duties and responsibilities of a General Services Manager. This essay material will not be scored separately, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. In addition, as part of the evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will also consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by the candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their responses.  

Candidates must complete the advisory essay. Those who do not complete the advisory essay will not be invited to the interview and will be considered to have failed the entire examination. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the advisory essay, which will be held in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, JUNE 17, 2017, in Los Angeles.     

NOTES:

1. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
2. Candidates will accrue seniority at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those classes which provide qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of those candidates. 
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis. 
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY 
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 9601 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 04-21-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

