GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS CHIEF
                                           
Class Code:       7211
Open Date:  03-04-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$85,127 to $124,423

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
  
DUTIES

A Geographic Information Systems Chief develops and oversees the long-term development and enhancement of a Geographic Information System (GIS); devises project plans, establishes data standards, and recommends GIS tools and web applications for project deployment and use; plans and directs the work of unit(s) engaged in web development, database maintenance, data analysis and map production; prepares budget requests, staff recruitment and skill development; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT

Two years of full-time paid experience as a Geographic Information Systems Supervisor with the City of Los Angeles.

NOTE:

Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%	

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: judgment and decision making, supervision, customer service, credibility, oral communication, project management, leadership, and job knowledge including knowledge of: methods and techniques to produce database maps, charts, graphs, or other Geographic Information Systems products; coordinate systems such as Cartesian or Lambert coordinates, latitude and departure, used in the plotting of map points; various complex concepts relevant to hardware and software computer application packages used in various automated mapping processes, such as Environmental Systems Research Institute (ESRI) software; basic cartographic and/or drafting principles, such as geometric construction, terminology, scaling, and proportions used in map construction or map editing; necessary map components such as street, dimensions, north arrow, property right-of-way, and scales contained in various maps; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/JobAnalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Geographic Information Systems Chief. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of APRIL 25, 2016 TO MAY 6, 2016.

NOTES:
	
1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% or above is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Section 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve problems prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
7. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
8. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


Class Code 7211 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .03-04-16



