GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS SPECIALIST

                                                                                                       Class Code:       7213
                                                                                                       Open Date:  01-24-14
							                                                                                            
ANNUAL SALARY

$60,447 to $75,084
In some positions, higher salaries may be paid for night work.
 
DUTIES

A Geographic Information Systems Specialist operates a GIS geo-processing system and performs technical geospatial information system input, including spatial and attribute data capture, automation, editing, and maintenance, application design and programming, maintenance/configuration of hardware and basic system analysis, to produce a wide range of geospatial data, databases, maps, reports, and applications, and data exports and files; may produce spatial and non-spatial data for studies or analysis that provide technical assistance relating to the design, construction, operation and maintenance of public/private facilities, zoning and planning, and demographics.

REQUIREMENTS

1.  A bachelor's degree from a recognized four-year college or university with a major in Geographic Information Systems, Engineering, Geography, Computer Science, or in a closely related field; and completion of at least 6 semester or 9 quarter units in geographic information systems; or
2.  Two years of full-time paid experience utilizing ESRI's Legacy ArcInfo (Command line) or any level of ESRI's ArcGIS Product suite software, MapInfo, AutoCAD Map 3D, or other GIS software utilizing a geospatially enabled Relational Data Base Management System (RDBMS); or
3.  Current employment with the City of Los Angeles with at least two years of full-time paid experience utilizing geographic information systems software, which incorporates a Relational Data Base Management System (RDBMS).
 
NOTES:

1.  In addition to the regular City application form, each candidate is required to complete the Geographic Information Systems Specialist Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Geographic Information Systems Specialist Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Candidates who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience is met.
3. To meet the requirements for this examination, the 6 semester or 9 quarter units must be completed at a recognized college or university or be transferable to a recognized college or university.
4. Applicants qualifying under Requirement #1 must list their school name and location, type of degree earned, major and completion dates, course titles with the number of semester or quarter units and completion dates in the School/Training Section of the application. Applicants who fail to provide this information on their application will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
5. Applicants filing under Requirement #3 must submit with the application a City of Los Angeles "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form, signed by their supervisor, verifying their experience utilizing geographic information systems software with RDBMS.  The VWE form should indicate the type of work performed and the amount of time spent performing such work. The form may be downloaded at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf or may be obtained at the Personnel Department, Room 100, 700 East Temple Street, Los Angeles, California 90012. Candidates may attach the completed VWE from to their on-line application at the time of filing or will have seven (7) days from the on-line submission date to submit a copy of their completed VWE form to:  Personnel Department, Room 100, 700 East Temple Street, Los Angeles, California 90012.  Candidates who fail to submit their VWE form within the time required will not be considered candidates in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
6. Employees may be required to work weekend and evening assignments.

Selective Certification

In accordance with Charter Section 1010(b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training in one or more of the following areas.  Only persons possessing the following at the time of filing may be considered for appointment to fill such positions.

1. Some positions will require specific RDBMS experience in Arc/Info; ArcGIS; ArcLogistics; RouteSmart; Job Tracking for ArcGIS (JTX); or TerraGo for ArcGIS.
2. Some positions will require experience using Computer Aided Design (CAD) or AutoDesk AutoCAD Map3D software.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations. 

Note:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2014.

NOTE:

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order the applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from January 24, 2014 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

EXPERT REVIEW COMMITTEE

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, an expert review committee may be assembled to evaluate each candidate's qualifications for the position of Geographic Information Systems Specialist. In this evaluation, the expert review committee will assess each candidate's training and experience based upon the information in the candidate's City employment application and the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered by the expert review committee as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Geographic Information Systems Specialist, based solely on the information presented to the committee, will be invited to participate in the interview. 

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight: Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidate's professional and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis will be placed on necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities to effectively perform the duties and responsibilities of the class, including the knowledge of:  basic cartographic and drafting principles used in map construction or map editing; elements of graphic design to enhance map appearance or the creation of public displays, including bar charts, line graphs, and pie charts; coordinate systems used in the plotting of map points; elementary computer operations, programming, and applications sufficient to understand entry, storage, retrieval and manipulation of data used in computerized systems; the ability to use GIS hardware and software application packages in automated mapping processes; understand the structure and organization of various data base organizations such as directories and files to store and recall information; back-up, compress and maintain computer files; read, interpret, and extract information from map documents in order to translate the information into effective graphic form; read, interpret, and understand a variety of written documents in order to obtain necessary information for analysis, map construction and software operations; follow written and oral directions; work independently; deal tactfully and effectively with others; effectively communicate orally in a clear, concise, and convincing manner; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.  

Prior to the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material relating to the use of relational databases in the automated mapping process.  This material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate.

It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of MARCH 24, 2014 THROUGH APRIL 4, 2014. Candidates will be notified later by mail regarding the date, time and location of the interview which will be held in Los Angeles.  

NOTES:
	
1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credit, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
           
Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
 INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 7213 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .01-24-14


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

