GRAPHICS DESIGNER

Class Code:       1670
Open Date:  01-12-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$46,708 to $68,319; $56,563 to $82,684; and $63,370 to $92,644.
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $70,908 to $88,092 and $83,102 to $103,230.
The salary in the Los Angeles World Airport is $58,547 to $85,566.

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
3. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Graphics Designer designs, coordinates and prepares ads, posters, pamphlets, brochures, covers, displays, signs and exhibits for informational, educational, publicity, sales and promotional purposes, and technical and administrative reports and presentations using computer graphics software or by hand; translates statistical and other data into maps, charts, graphs, illustrations, project slides, and other presentation media; or may act as a lead person to employees engaged in these duties.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience in the graphic design field preparing electronic and printed graphic materials such as displays, layout design for websites, brochures, descriptive charts, advertising or other publications for commercial or public use; or
2. A bachelor's degree in Art, Graphic Design or Computer Graphics from an accredited four-year college or university; with at least 12 semester or 18 quarter units in Graphic Design, or Commercial Art; or
3. Completion of a Certificate Program in art, graphics design or computer graphics from a recognized art school accredited by the National Association of Schools of Art and Design.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Graphics Designer Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Graphics Designer Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. For applicants filing under Requirement #2, you must list your school name and location, type of degree earned, major, and completion dates in the Education section of the application. Applicants must also list the course titles and number of units for each course claimed as qualifying in Graphic Design or Commercial Art in the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application.
5. Please note that qualifying education for Requirement #2 must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. 
6. Applicants filing under Requirement #3 must submit proof completion of a certificate program at the time of filing. A copy of the certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with submitting it. Applicants who fail to submit the certificate at the time of filing will not considered further in this examination.
7. Please note that qualifying education for Requirement #3 must be from a recognized art school accredited by the National Association of Schools of Art and Design (NASAD). To determine if a school is accredited by the NASAD, please visit https://nasad.arts-accredit.org/directory-lists/accredited-institutions/. 
8. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree and/or coursework.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, JANUARY 25, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from January 12, 2018 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Graphics Designer may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Graphics Designer based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 and qualifications review as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and personal qualifications as they have prepared the candidate to perform the duties of a Graphics Designer, including: the quality and technical capability of the candidate to prepare displays, layout design for websites, descriptive charts, brochures for commercial or public use; and knowledge of design principles, methods, and media equipment; printing and reproduction methods; typography and elements of color; current trends in typography and design; and the ability to accurately and effectively translate oral and written information into graphic presentations; use computerized graphics hardware and software in graphics design applications; draw and generate a wide variety of subjects including technical and non-technical illustrations; produce presentation media; determine the most appropriate and effective use of color; understand and analyze information received pertaining to graphics design projects to effectively design posters, pamphlets, displays, and exhibits for informational, educational, and publicity purposes; estimate the amount of time required to meet deadlines for graphics projects; remain apprised of current updates to graphics design hardware and software; review and evaluate work for adequacy, accuracy, and conformance to instructions; communicate effectively; deal tactfully and effectively with the public and other employees; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

As part of the interview, candidates will be required to present to the interview board a portfolio with samples of their graphics design work.  While the interviewers will not assign a separate score to the samples, the interviewers will consider the quality of the samples in their overall evaluations of the candidate's qualifications.  Candidates should expect the interviewers to discuss the samples with them during their interviews.  All samples will be returned to the candidates after the conclusion of their interviews.  

Specific information regarding the portfolio of graphics design samples to be presented to the interview board will be e-mailed to those candidates invited to participate in the interview.  

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of MARCH 26, 2018 to APRIL 6, 2018.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required timeframe; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1670 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 01-12-18


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to:  http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess



