HARBOR PLANNING AND RESEARCH DIRECTOR

Class Code:   9234
Open Date: 08-10-18
Revised: 08-23-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY
	
$91,913 to $134,362 and $107,803 to $157,602

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
3. For information regarding reciprocity between City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Harbor Planning and Research Director directs the port planning, goods movement, transportation infrastructure planning, economic development, zoning consistency, and maritime research activities of the Harbor Department; originates and develops plans and programs and coordinates policy recommendations with other agencies for land and water use, makes policy recommendations for hazardous port facility site selection and strategic issue management; ensures consistency of Port development activities and Port Master Plan; analyzes the socioeconomic impact of port projects or assists in these activities, and plans, organizes, and directs the work of professional and clerical employees engaged in planning and research; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid professional experience as a Harbor Planning and Economic Analyst with the City of Los Angeles; or 
2. Three years of full-time paid professional experience in planning, analysis, and research related to port operations or facilities; developing, administering, or managing economic development programs; goods movement including logistics and maritime research; or transportation infrastructure planning.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met. 
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the past 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that required possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional", non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree. 
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. 
SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION
In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training in the following areas. Only persons possessing the following as of the close of the filing period may be considered for appointment to fill such positions.

Two years of full-time paid professional experience in assessing cost feasibilities of different modes of transportation such as cargo movement by truck, rail, or ocean going vessels, and evaluating methods to improve transportation efficiencies. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.



APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, AUGUST 30, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the Training and Experience Questionnaire in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:	 Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of training and experience, wherein candidates will be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background, personal qualifications and abilities. Emphasis will be placed on the following: Judgment and Decision Making, Analytical Ability, Supervision, Teamwork, Written Communication, Program Responsibility, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: principles, practices, and methods of economic research, such as supply and demand and feasibility studies; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Harbor Planning and Research Director.

The Training and Experience Questionnaire will be administered on-line. Candidates invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to complete the on-line Training and Experience Questionnaire. Candidates that do not complete the on-line Training and Experience Questionnaire as required will not be considered further in this examination. It is anticipated that the on-line Training and Experience Questionnaire will be administered during the period of OCTOBER 2, 2018 and OCTOBER 9, 2018.

Training and Experience Questionnaires for all candidates who meet the requirements, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the candidate's Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the expert review panel. 

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. Upon appointment, a Harbor Planning and Research Director may be required to furnish an automobile, properly insured for use in City service with reimbursement provided.
3. Promotional candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those classes that provide qualifying experience for this position. A maximum of one point will be added to the score of the candidate. 
4. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
5. The successful candidate may be required to complete a medical examination prior to appointment.
6. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
7. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
8. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
9. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit as indicated above, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
10. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
11. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 
12. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications are met.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefits coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.


THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 9234 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08-10-18 REV 08-23-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to:  http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

