HEAVY DUTY EQUIPMENT MECHANIC
Class Code:       3743
Open Date:  02-17-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$84,188; $91,036 (flat-rated)

NOTES:

1. The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $90,180 (flat-rated) or $92,080 (flat-rated).
2. For information regarding reciprocity between City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower flat-rated positions.
4. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanic does journey-level work in the maintenance and repair of construction, road maintenance, marine, or firefighting equipment; or builds and installs or modifies equipment for special purposes.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS 

1. Completion of a recognized apprenticeship as a heavy duty equipment mechanic; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience as a journey-level equipment mechanic which includes the repair of a variety of heavy duty gasoline and diesel powered vehicles or off road construction equipment or watercraft; or
3. Five years of full-time paid experience in equipment maintenance and repair, of which two years must have been in the maintenance and repair of heavy duty gasoline and diesel powered vehicles or off road construction equipment or watercraft. Completion of an auto or truck mechanics program at a recognized institution may be substituted on a year-for-year basis for experience lacking in equipment maintenance and repair up to a maximum of two years. (30 semester or 45 quarter units from an accredited college or trade school is equal to one year.)

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 must submit an Apprenticeship Certificate at the time of filing. The certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the certificate. Applicants who fail to submit the Apprentice Certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination. 
2. Applicants wishing to be considered for the Selective Certification must attach a copy of either their Marine Corrosion Technician or Marine Systems Technician Certificate to the online application at the time of filing. The certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the certificate. Applicants who fail to submit the applicable certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered for the Selective Certification. 
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #3, must list the two years of experience in the maintenance and repair of heavy duty gasoline and diesel powered vehicles or off road construction equipment separately in the work history section of the online application.  
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
5. Some positions may require a valid California Class A and/or Class B driver's license with Tanker and/or Hazmat endorsement(s) and a valid medical certificate prior to appointment. Applicants must submit a commercial driving history in accordance with Tanker and/or Hazmat endorsement(s) with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1801.1. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
6. Some positions may require a valid marine Diesel Engine & Support Systems certification issued by the American Boat and Yacht Council (ABYC) or equivalent Detroit Diesel Factory Certification for marine diesel engine and support systems.

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training in the following area.  Only persons possessing the following as of the close of the filing period may be considered for appointment to fill such positions. 

Possession of a Marine Corrosion Technician or Marine Systems Technician Certificate from the American Boat and Yacht Council.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from February 17, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Filing may close without prior notice after a sufficient number of applications are received. For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen the following day.

SELECTION PROCESS 

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:  Written Test. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
                                        Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%
 
The examination will consist of a qualifying multiple-choice written test and an interview. The qualifying written test will consist of multiple-choice questions. In the multiple-choice written test, the following competencies may be evaluated: Reading Comprehension, Analytical Ability, Safety Focus, Technology Application, Equipment Operation, Teamwork, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of basic mechanical principles of the internal combustion engine; principles and operational characteristics and components of: hydraulic, air, and mechanical break systems; gasoline, diesel, and alternative fuel systems; drive shafts, final drive assemblies, clutch assemblies; various types of manual transmissions, auxiliary transmissions, automatic transmissions, and power-take off (PTO)-driven auxiliary equipment; hydraulic systems; exhaust and emission control systems; air conditioning systems and their controls; cooling and heating systems and their controls; manual and power steering systems; suspension systems on automotive and heavy-duty equipment; tire wearing patterns inspection practices; procedures and equipment used to diagnose engine noise; functions and operation of charging and starting systems; U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) criteria on brake servicing and adjustment and City personnel policies, rules, and regulations; methods pertaining to standard industry practices, original equipment manufacturer (OEM), and/or Cal/OSHA requirements; proper and safe use of tools and equipment and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 
 
Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanic. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session. The first date scheduled for the written test is April 22, 2017, in Los Angeles. Future test dates will be scheduled later.

Passing Score for Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

All candidates who pass the qualifying multiple-choice written test will be invited to participate in the interview. 

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Analytical Ability, Safety Focus, Technology Application, Equipment Operation, Teamwork, Oral Communication and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of basic mechanical principles of the internal combustion engine; principles and operational characteristics and components of: hydraulic, air, and mechanical break systems; gasoline, diesel, and alternative fuel systems; drive shafts, final drive assemblies, clutch assemblies; various types of manual transmissions, auxiliary transmissions, automatic transmissions, and power-take off (PTO)-driven auxiliary equipment; hydraulic systems; exhaust and emission control systems; air conditioning systems and their controls; cooling and heating systems and their controls; manual and power steering systems; suspension systems on automotive and heavy-duty equipment; tire wearing patterns inspection practices; procedures and equipment used to diagnose engine noise; functions and operation of charging and starting systems; U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) criteria on brake servicing and adjustment and City personnel policies, rules, and regulations; methods pertaining to standard industry practices, original equipment manufacturer (OEM), and/or Cal/OSHA requirements; proper and safe use of tools and equipment and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.  

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanic. 

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
3. Based on City policy, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
4. The incumbents of some positions in this class may be required to pass an annual or periodic work fitness evaluation to determine their eligibility for continued employment in this class.
5. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
6. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
7. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion of this examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
8. You may take this examination once every 365 days.
9. Your rank on the employment list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of this examination are merged onto one list.
10. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
11. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 3743 CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .02-17-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

