HELICOPTER MECHANIC SUPERVISOR

Class Code:       3749
Open Date:  12-16-16
REVISED: 12-22-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$108,095 (flat-rated)

NOTE:

The current salary is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 

DUTIES

A Helicopter Mechanic Supervisor assigns, reviews, and evaluates the work of Helicopter Mechanics and other employees engaged in cleaning, servicing, maintaining, repairing, inspecting, and returning City-owned helicopters to service; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force, and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Four years of full-time paid experience in the maintenance and repair of helicopters as a licensed Airframe and Power Plant Mechanic, three years of which was in the maintenance, repair and major component overhaul of turbine powered helicopters within the past four years.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
2. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Helicopter Mechanic Supervisor Supplemental Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing.  The Helicopter Mechanic Supervisor Supplemental Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.  
3. Applicants must submit a valid mechanical license with Airframe and Power Plant ratings issued by the Federal Aviation Administration at the time of filing. The copy of the license must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the license is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the license at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination. 
4. A current inspection authorization issued by the Federal Aviation Administration is required prior to appointment.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Supplemental Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Interview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an interview. In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's experience, background and personal qualifications in providing the skills necessary to perform the duties of a Helicopter Mechanic Supervisor, including  knowledge of: inspection methods of locating and diagnosing mechanical, electrical, hydraulic, structural, and other related problems; operation and preventative maintenance requirements for helicopters; maintenance and repair of engines, airframes and accessory equipment; electrical theory sufficient to properly connect and utilize electrical equipment; Federal Aviation Administration regulations concerning inspection, maintenance and repair of helicopters; sources of information on operating maintenance and repair problems; safety principles and practices, including occupational hazards involved in shop and field helicopter maintenance and repair; methods for painting helicopters and working with composites, plastics and metals; supervisory principles and practices, including Equal Employment Opportunity, Memoranda of Understanding, and City personnel rules, policies and procedures; and techniques for counseling, disciplining, and motivating subordinate personnel; the ability to: read, interpret and work from blue prints, diagrams, sketches and technical manuals; design and repair working sketches of equipment modification; write reports and keep helicopter maintenance shop and equipment logs, in addition to other records; use tools, power tools, equipment, and methods of the trade; make time and material estimates and determine economical solutions; establish and maintain a work environment to enhance both employee morale and productivity; communicate orally in a clear, concise and effective manner; deal tactfully and effectively with others; and other skills, knowledge and abilities.

The Helicopter Mechanic Supervisor Supplemental Qualifications Questionnaire will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of FEBRUARY 13, 2017 to FEBRUARY 24, 2017.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
6. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. 
Class Code 3749 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-16-16 REV 12-22-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

