HELICOPTER MECHANIC
Class Code:       3742
Open Date:  07-22-05
Revised:    02-08-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY 

$96,074 (flat-rated)
A 5.5% bonus is paid for possessing an FAA Inspection Authorization.  Some positions require night work, for which a higher salary is paid.

DUTIES

A Helicopter Mechanic inspects, repairs, overhauls, services, cleans and returns all City-owned helicopters to service, including those of the Fire and Police Departments.

NOTE:  

Helicopter Mechanics must be available to work weekends and holidays.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Three years of full-time paid experience, two years of which must have been within the past three years, as an FAA Certified Airframe and Power Plant Mechanic engaged in performing maintenance and alterations on at least one or more of the following turbine powered helicopters: Bell 407, Bell 206 series, Bell 412, Eurocopter AS 350 Series (EC130), and/or Agusta AW 139.  Qualifying experience must include the following:
a. Performing FAR Part 91 or Part 135 required inspections; and
b. Electrical and mechanical, repair, and troubleshooting activities; and
c. Sheet metal repairs on air frames; and
d. Major component overhaul or repair; and
e. Approving aircraft for return to service after any of the above.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Individuals employed as a Helicopter Mechanic with the City of Los Angeles are required to furnish their own hand tools. 
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Helicopter Mechanic Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Helicopter Mechanic Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
4. Applicants must submit a valid mechanical license with Airframe and Power Plant ratings issued by the Federal Aviation Administration at the time of filing. The copy of the license must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the license is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the license at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations.
			




APPLICATION DEADLINE
This examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. For administrative purposes, filing may close periodically and reopen the following day.


SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Technical Interview   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of a technical interview.  In the technical interview, you may be required to answer questions and identify specific parts of a helicopter.  In the technical interview, emphasis will be placed on your knowledge of:  methods of inspecting helicopters; locating and diagnosing a variety of helicopter-related mechanical, electrical, and other problems; maintaining and repairing engines, airframes, and accessory equipment and overhauling components; sources of information on operating, maintenance and repair problems; FAA regulations regarding the inspection, maintenance and repair of helicopters; job-related safety; electrical theory sufficient to perform the work of a helicopter mechanic; and the abilities to:  operate tools, equipment, and materials of the trade; paint and work with the materials used in helicopters; maintain logs and records; communicate orally and deal tactfully and effectively with others; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

As part of the overall evaluation of candidates' job qualifications, the technical interview board members will consider the information in the candidates' Qualifications Questionnaire.  Candidates may expect the interviewers to discuss this information with them during their technical interview.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the technical interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. Candidates may take this examination only once every 365 days.	
2. This examination is based on a validation study.
3. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
4. Some positions may require a valid California Class B driver's license.  Prior to appointment, all applicants must submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1808.1.
5. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
6. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
	
NOTICE:
  
If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.


THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS


The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 3742 CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07-22-05 REV 02-08-18

 AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 


