HOUSING INVESTIGATOR

Class Code:       8516
Open Date:  06-29-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$59,487 to $86,965 and $70,157 to $102,563

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Housing Investigator conducts preliminary and follow-up investigations of alleged violations of the City's Rent Stabilization Ordinance (RSO) and/or Housing Code (Los Angeles Municipal Code Chapters XV and XVI); gathers and evaluates evidence through investigative research, which may include inspecting properties, interviewing tenants, complainants, landlords, and other witnesses; obtains physical and documentary evidence; compiles, analyzes and organizes legal documents; undertakes legal research; prepares oral and written reports on investigative findings; prepares legal cases for referrals to the City Attorney's Office Criminal Division; negotiates complaint settlements and case closures with landlords and tenants; represents the City at public events to provide information about the RSO; may act as a lead investigator reviewing the work of a team of housing investigators; may supervise investigative support and public counter staff; and performs related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university, and one year of full-time, paid professional experience investigating complaints, analyzing evidence, and preparing legal documents related to civil or criminal enforcement actions; or
2. A paralegal certificate from a paralegal training program within the United States and one year of full-time, paid paralegal experience investigating complaints, analyzing evidence and preparing legal documents related to civil or criminal enforcement actions; or
3. Four years of full-time paid experience investigating complaints, analyzing evidence, and preparing legal documents, one year of which must be related to civil or criminal enforcement actions.

One year (i.e., 30 semester or 45 quarter units) of classes from a law school within the United States or a paralegal certificate from a paralegal training program within the United States may be substituted for one year of professional experience specified in Requirement #3.

PROCESS NOTES

1. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 must list their school name and location, type of degree earned and major in the Education Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to provide this information on their application will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed.
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 must submit a paralegal certificate at the time of filing. The copy of the certificate must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the on-line application will not be considered further in this examination.
4. Applicants wishing to substitute education for experience in Requirement #3 must list their school name and location, appropriate course titles, their respective number of semester or quarter units, and completion dates for each course claimed as qualifying in the text box which will appear in the Supplemental Questions section of the on-line application.
5. Applicants wishing to substitute completion of a paralegal training program for one (1) year of the required experience in Requirement #3 must submit a copy of their certificate of completion. The copy of the certificate must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. 
6. Experience in Housing Law is highly desired.
7. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
8. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
9. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree and coursework.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed below:

From 8:00 am Friday, June 29, 2018 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, July 12, 2018
From 8:00 am Friday, June 28, 2019 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, July 11, 2019

The examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. Filing periods may change without prior notice or additional dates may be added, as needed, at a later date. For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen on the dates noted in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates. 

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
                                        Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Analytical Ability, Self-Management, Objectivity, Responsiveness and Follow-Up, Interpersonal Skills, Written Communication, Fact Finding, including knowledge of: proper investigative techniques and procedures for identifying and obtaining evidence; interviewing techniques and strategies; and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: mediation techniques; the principles and practices of confidentiality; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Housing Investigator.

Prior to the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Housing Investigator. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. The advisory essay will be administered on-line. Candidates invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to complete the on-line advisory essay, and will be required to do so by the date provided in the instructions sent to them via email. Candidates who fail to complete the on-line advisory essay may be disqualified. It is anticipated that the first on-line advisory essay will be administered JULY 23, 2018 to JULY 30, 2018. Additional test dates will be added as needed.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. The first test administration will be held during the period of SEPTEMBER 4, 2018 to SEPTEMBER 14, 2018. Additional test dates will be added as needed.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. You may take the Housing Investigator exam only once every 24 months. If you have taken the Housing Investigator exam during an open filing period in the Personnel Department within the last 24 months, you may not file for this examination at this time.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
9. Your rank on the employment list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of the examination are merged onto one list.
10. Your name will be removed from the eligible list after 24 months.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

Class Code 8516 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06-29-18

