HYDROGRAPHER
Class Code:       7263
Open Date:  01-27-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$67,818 to $84,250; $71,326 to $88,593; and $74,896 to $93,041

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Hydrographer gathers, records, and compiles hydrographic and meteorological data pertinent to municipal water supply and rights.

NOTE:

Hydrographers may be required to climb ladders and work up to 90 feet above ground on the outside of water tanks and towers, and up to 90 feet underground in confined spaces such as seepage and reservoir vaults, and lift objects weighing up to 90 pounds.  They may also be required to carry backpacks at high altitudes, in adverse weather conditions and in isolated areas, and use skis, snowshoes, snowmobiles, and all terrain vehicles (ATVs).

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid experience in hydrography or field surveying, or in one or more of the following fields: utility electronics technician, computer electronics technician, computer control systems technician, communications systems technician, or communications instrumentation technician.

One year of education from an accredited college or university of which 12 semester or 18 quarter units must be in engineering or physical sciences or agricultural management may be substituted for each year of experience lacking.

PROCESS NOTES

1. For applicants who are substituting education for the aforementioned full-time paid experience in the Requirement, one year of college or university education will be substituted on the basis of 30 semester or 45 quarter units. For this substitution, applicants must list each course title, school name and location, number of semester or quarter units, and completion dates in the Supplemental Questions Section of the on-line application.
2. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying course work.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

This examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. For administrative purposes, filing may close periodically and reopen periodically.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS
After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:
Examination Weight: Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of a weighted written test. In the weighted written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, the following competencies may be evaluated: Mathematics; Self-Management; Interpersonal Skills; Safety Focus including the content and purpose of Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDSs); Technology Application, including application of: hydrographic meters and instrumentation used to measure and record water flow and pressure; voltmeters used to measure voltage and amperage in devices with simple electric circuitry; Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: hydrography and hydrogeology concepts;  flow measurement structures and their components; water and snow surveying methods and the tools necessary to perform such work; topographic features of maps; basic plumbing materials used to install hydrographic devices; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Hydrographer.

The first written test will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, MARCH 25, 2017 in Los Angeles. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test. Additional test dates may be added as needed. 

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. You may take this examination only once every 365 days. Your name may be removed from the eligible list after six (6) months.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
5. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
7. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
8. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list. 
9. Your rank on the employment list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of this examination are merged onto one list.
10. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Section 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve problems prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7263 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 01-27-17

EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORUNITY


