
IMPROVEMENT ASSESSOR SUPERVISOR
Class Code:       1564
Open Date:  10-02-15
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$63,057 to $92,185 and $75,898 to $110,998

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions. 

DUTIES

An Improvement Assessor Supervisor supervises and participates in the work of a group of employees engaged in determining the assessments to be levied on benefiting property owners for the costs of constructing and maintaining public works improvements and explaining assessment processes and procedures to all public and other City officials.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Three years of full-time paid experience with the City of Angeles as an Improvement Assessor; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Senior Civil Engineering Drafting Technician performing special assessment work; or
3. Three years of full-time paid experience in special assessment work.

Completion of 12 semester units or 18 quarter units in engineering or engineering technology from an accredited college or university may be substituted for 1 year of the special assessments experience specified in Requirement 2.

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete an Improvement Assessor Supervisor Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Improvement Assessor Supervisor Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants must indicate the engineering  or engineering technology courses completed and include the name of the school, course credit earned, and grade received in the Supplemental Questions Section of the on-line application. Candidates who fail to do so will not be considered any further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
3. A valid California driver's license is required.  Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualification Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements. 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from October 2, 2015 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW:
Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, candidate's qualifications for the position of Improvement Assessor Supervisor may be evaluated based on the candidates responses to the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Improvement Assessor Supervisor, based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process. 

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Essay. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory					    Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%
                                     	
The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of candidate's training, experience and background as they have provided the knowledge and abilities necessary to perform the duties of an Improvement Assessor Supervisor, including the knowledge of: steps and responsibilities in the assessment improvement process, including the types and sources of available information related to assessments and right-of-way acquisition costs; methods and practices used in describing legal boundaries of real property; Local, State, and Federal laws, rules, and regulations applicable to public works assessments, including City ordinances, Los Angeles City Municipal Code, Proposition 218, and the Assessment Legal Notification Requirements; computer software, programs, and databases such as Word, Excel, Access, and AutoCad; fundamental principles and practices of supervisions, including directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending, and evaluating the work of subordinates;  pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) and Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs); and the ability to plan, organize, direct, review and coordinate the work of employees engaged in determining the assessments to be levied on benefiting property owners; analyze and solve a variety of assessment problems; prepare and document the individual spread of assessments and legal property descriptions; read, and interpret various assessment documents, methods, and procedures, including engineering maps, right-of-way acquisition maps, construction cost estimates, and engineering assessment diagrams; communicate, both orally and in writing, in a clear, concise, and effective manner sufficient to explain various assessment documents, methods, and procedures; deal tactfully and effectively with co-workers, supervisors, property owners, other agencies, and others; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

At the time of the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of an Improvement Assessor Supervisor.  This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate.  Candidates who fail to complete the advisory essay may be disqualified. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their advisory essay responses. 

The Qualifications Questionnaire will not be separately scored, but will be considered by the interview board in evaluating each candidate's qualifications. Candidates may expect the panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board. 

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of DECEMBER 7, 2015 to DECEMBER 18, 2015.

NOTES:

1. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
2. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
3. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
8. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores, all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidate's City application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1564. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10-02-15


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

