INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL FINANCE OFFICER

Class Code:       9191
Open Date:  05-15-15
                                              (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$87,048 to $127,242 and $93,417 to $136,555.

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list normally are appointed only to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Industrial and Commercial Finance Officer analyzes loan or bond applications, recommends and secures public financing for small and medium sized businesses, and industrial, infrastructure, mixed-use, and commercial development projects; develops innovative public financing and lending programs; structures and negotiates loan terms and conditions; documents and executes loan agreements; provides technical assistance in structuring and securing financing for businesses and developers; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective workforce; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS

1.		Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a degree in business or finance or related field; and
2.  Two years of full-time paid professional experience in a class at the level of Management Analyst with the City of Los Angeles or in a comparable position within an agency or organization other than the City of Los Angeles, which provides experience in developing and implementing financing programs for commercial and industrial development, including business credit analysis and financial analysis of industrial, infrastructure, mixed-use, and/or commercial development projects.

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Industrial and Commercial Finance Officer Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The industrial and Commercial Finance Officer Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed. 
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. 
4. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional", non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree. 
5. A valid California drivers' license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2015.




In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from May 15, 2015 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW
Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Industrial and Commercial Finance Officer may be evaluated based on the candidate's responses to the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of an Industrial and Commercial Finance Officer based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory 
                                      Interview . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and background as they demonstrate the knowledge of: the theory, principles, and practices of commercial real estate finance and business, industrial and commercial finance; real estate transactions, lending and commercial property negotiations, underwriting, and preparing and processing loan applications; federal, state, local and conventional financing programs; contractual agreements required in commercial real estate and industrial financing; computer-based financial analysis software and spreadsheet application; budgeting, personnel administration, organization, and management as they apply to the operation of business entities; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending and evaluating the work of subordinates; and the ability to direct and coordinate, either directly or through subordinate supervisors, the work of groups of employees engaged in a variety of industrial and commercial finance activities; prepare, interpret and explain complex financial documents, program objectives, procedures, rules and regulations; conduct financial analysis of business entities; communicate, both orally and in writing in a clear, concise, and effective manner sufficient to make persuasive oral presentations and written reports; deal tactfully and effectively with governmental officials, community organizations, financial institutions, the public and others; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

The Qualifications Questionnaire will not be separately scored, but will be considered by the interview board in evaluating each candidate's qualifications. Candidates may expect the panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board. 

Prior to the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material on a topic related to the duties and responsibilities of an Industrial and Commercial Finance Officer.  This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate.  Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their responses.  Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the advisory writing session, which will be a single half-day session on SATURDAY, AUGUST 1, 2015, in Los Angeles.

Candidates must complete the advisory essay. Those who fail to complete the advisory essay will not be invited to an interview and will be considered to have failed the entire examination.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of AUGUST 24, 2015 to SEPTEMBER 4, 2015.

NOTES:


1. As a covered entity under Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodation to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 9191 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .05-15-15


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

