INFORMATION SERVICES SPECIALIST

Class Code:      1456
Open Date: 08-04-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$59,675 to $87,258
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $73,581 to $91,391

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Information Services Specialist assists in the evaluation, development, maintenance, implementation and modification of host-based, departmental processor, and personal computer operating systems, program product and supporting software; assists in planning and documenting facility and equipment-related activities; coordinates computer equipment installations, removals, modifications, and maintenance; develops host-based computer software or hardware procedures and assists in the analysis and resolution of network and hardware problems; performs analytic monitoring of computer systems in an operations center environment.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Current employment with the City of Los Angeles; and
2. Two years of full-time paid data processing experience in the installation, operation, programming, analysis, design, or data control of hardware or software for small, medium and large-scale computers, in performing simple system user requirements analysis and trouble shooting.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement has been met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, AUGUST 17, 2017.


SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights: Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of a weighted written test. In the weighted written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, the following competencies may be evaluated: Analytical Ability, Attention to Detail, Fact Finding, Customer Service, Teamwork, Follow Written Directions, and Job Knowledge including knowledge of: computers and their components such as central processing units, memory, and storage devices; capabilities, uses, characteristics, and limitations of servers, peripheral equipment, and operating software systems; information and management information systems, cyber security related software, application security software, network security, identity management and control software, and malware and virus software; networks and network technologies such as Local Area Networks (LANs), Wide Area Networks (WANs), network protocols, and Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Information Services Specialist. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2017 in Los Angeles. If you are unable to appear on the scheduled test date, please refer to? http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess for additional information.

NOTES:

1. 11111This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.  
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates. 
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24 and 4.23, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 1456 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08-04-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 

