LABORATORY TECHNICIAN

Class Code:       7854
Open Date:  03-04-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$41,530 to $60,760 and $49,255 to $72,036
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $52,116 to $64,748; $61,324 to $76,212; $65,312 to $81,118; $67,985 to $84,480; and $74,604 to $92,665

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Laboratory Technician performs standard and non-standard tests including preparing chemical solutions (reagents) of a routine to difficult nature concerning the chemical, radiological, biological, or microbiological laboratory analysis of water, wastewater, sludge, physical evidence in criminal cases, and materials and supplies used by City departments; makes simple calculations and prepares and maintains records and technical reports on analytical results; makes minor repairs to intricate testing equipment; tracks samples and enters analytical results in the laboratory information management system; performs chain of custody duties for sample receiving; complies with the Quality Assurance plan of the lab; performs sample collection and delivery; prepares and modifies basic standard operating procedure of laboratory test methods; and may supervise employees engaged in the above work.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Completion of 12 semester or 18 quarter units at an accredited college or university in the areas of chemistry, biochemistry, biology, microbiology, botany, zoology, oceanography, or marine biology, and at least two of the aforementioned courses must have had a laboratory module either as part of or separate from the general lecture; and
2. Completion of 3 semester or 4 quarter units of mathematics at an accredited college or university.

NOTES:

1. Some positions may require introductory courses in microbiology or invertebrate zoology.
2. Some positions at the Department of Water and Power may require completion of a course in analytical or quantitative chemistry.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
4. Laboratory Technicians may be required to work at sea aboard a water-quality monitoring vessel and/or be required to operate a  4-wheel drive vehicle on freeways and sandy beaches. Some positions involve working with solvents and acids, in high temperature settings, and can be physically demanding. Also, Laboratory Technicians may be required to work after-hours, weekends, holidays as needed due to operational needs.
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from March 4, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of a multiple-choice written test, in which candidates may be examined for knowledge of: laboratory procedures, apparatus, instruments, and proper use of laboratory equipment; properties of water and chemicals; stoichiometry; analytical chemistry and microbiological analysis techniques; principles of chemistry and organic chemistry; biology and microbiology; mathematics including statistics; English and metric systems of measurement; CAL/OSHA safety regulations; quality assurance programs; and the ability to define problems, use independent judgment to determine possible solutions; read and interpret complex technical information; follow written instructions; read and interpret gauges, charts and graphs; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, MAY 7, 2016, in Los Angeles. 

NOTES:	

1. This examination is based on a validation study and, as provided by the Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Upon appointment, a Laboratory Technician may be required to furnish his or her own automobile, properly insured for use in City service. Mileage will be paid according to established rates.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.  
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates. 
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered open candidates.
8. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review period may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. 

Class Code 7854 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .03-04-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

