LICENSED VOCATIONAL NURSE 
Class Code:       2332
Open Date:  04-24-15
 (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$46,812 to $58,150
The per diem hourly rate is $22.42.

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

Under general supervision, assists physicians, registered nurses and other health specialists in performing patient care activities, such as obtaining vital signs, and performing diagnostic testing; and performs related duties as required.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Possession of a valid and current California License as a Licensed Vocational Nurse; and
2. Possession of a certificate from the State of California for intravenous therapy and blood withdrawal; and
3. Possession of a current American Heart Association Basic Life Support for Healthcare Provider CPR card.

NOTES:

1. In addition to answering the regular City application supplemental questions, each applicant is required to complete a Licensed Vocational Nurse Training and Experience Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Licensed Vocational Nurse Training and Experience Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Training and Experience Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
2. At the time of appointment, candidates must submit verification of their current, valid certificate from the State of California for intravenous therapy and blood withdrawal and their American Heart Association Basic Life Support for Healthcare Provider CPR card.
3. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if  their record within the last 36 months  reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. One year of full-time paid professional licensed vocational nurse work experience drawing blood, performing EKG's, and administering medication and injections is highly desired. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTES:
 
1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter. 
2. All application materials must be completed at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination. 


APPLICATION DEADLINE

The examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. For administrative purposes, filing may close periodically and reopen the following workday.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:	Evaluation of Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of training and experience, wherein candidates may be evaluated on their experience, professional background and personal qualifications as they have provided the necessary knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the work of a Licensed Vocational Nurse, including knowledge of: medical terminology; anatomy and physiology of the human body; simple laboratory procedures such as drawing blood and urinalysis testing; administration of medicines and vaccinations; problems, procedures and techniques in the administration of appropriate medical services in emergency and non-emergency situations; maintaining a sanitary and sterile work environment; safety regulations and practices; and the ability to accurately measure and administer medications; read medical instruments in order to accurately monitor or record body measurements, including computer performance testing such as EKGs; assist with the completion of medical history forms, record data and maintain accurate medical records in accordance with regulations governing the confidentiality of medical information; provide direct patient care/education; interact in a courteous, polite, and customer-service oriented manner with patients, coworkers, supervisors, and managers while explaining or gathering information necessary to perform the job; write clearly, concisely, and accurately, using proper grammar and spelling; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Training and Experience Questionnaires will be submitted to an expert panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the candidate's Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the review panel.
 
NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. Candidates may take the test only once every 180 days during the administration of this examination. Names may be removed from the open competitive eligible list after six months.
5. Your rank on the employment list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of this examination are merged onto one list. 

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 2332 CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04-24-15

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

