LOCKSMITH 

Class Code:       3393
Open Date:  11-30-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$84,075 (flat-rated)
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $96,256 and $97,488 to $102,917 

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Locksmith installs, repairs, rebuilds, re-keys, cleans and maintains locks, locking devices and door related hardware; establishes and maintains master key systems, which include Schlage, Corbin-Russwin IC, Yale, Falcon, Sargent, Best and high security "Primus" and "Primus Everest"; and services a variety of specialized security systems including computerized access control and electronic locking devices.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Completion of a recognized apprenticeship as a locksmith; or
2. Five years of full-time paid experience in the repair of locks and door closers and in the establishment and/or maintenance of the following key systems: Schlage, Schlage high security (i.e. Primus and Primus Everest), Corbin-Russwin, Corbin-Russwin IC, Yale, Falcon, Sargent and Best. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for an appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
3. Applicants filing under Requirement Number 1 must submit an apprenticeship certificate. Applicants must attach a copy of the Apprenticeship Certificate to the online application at the time of filing. The certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the certificate. Applicants who fail to submit the Apprentice Certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.
4. Building Repairers, Building Operating Engineers, and Maintenance & Construction Helpers with the City of Los Angeles filing under Requirement 2 must submit a City of Los Angeles "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form, which must also indicate the percentage of time performing the work that is claimed as qualifying experience. The VWE form may be obtained on-line at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf.
5. Applicants required to submit a VWE form may attach the completed VWE form to their on-line application at the time of filing, or will have seven (7) calendar days from the on-line submission date to e-mail a copy of their completed VWE form, including the required signatures to per.appsdocs@lacity.org. The subject line of your e-mail must include the exam title, your name and indicate it is a VWE. In the body of your e-mail, you must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number and contact phone number. Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
6. A valid permit to perform locksmith work, issued by the Los Angeles Police Department, may be required prior to appointment.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, DECEMBER 13, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Locksmith may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Locksmith, based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review, will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of technical and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the knowledge of: the procedures for setting up, maintaining and reconfiguring a master key system using manufacturer's specifications, blueprints, interviews with clients, and safety laws; City, State, and Federal laws such as safety, fire, and architect barrier laws as required by Locksmiths; the flexibility of master key systems; products available in the market and product limitations; the procedures for setting up locks as required for a master key system by pins, wafers, discs, and levels as used in desks, file cabinets, padlocks, cylinders, and electrical switches; the procedures for installing locks on doors  (glass, metal, and wood) and office furniture, such as desks, cabinets and file cabinets in accordance with architectural specifications, law requirements, department safety, and security needs in order to meet the proper safety and security levels; the procedures for disassembling, cleaning, and reassembling cylinders, locks, pivots, door checks, electrical strikes, and electrical actuating locking devices; the procedures for cutting a functional key by impressing a key from the cylinder; and the ability to cut blank keys using code machines, duplicators, combinators, clippers, and depth keys; hammer identification codes on keys manually using stamps, dies and hammers; generate master key systems by using computer generated matrix formulas; formulate cost estimates for work performed; gain entry by picking locks using picks, tension wrenches, and specialized picks to open locks; gather information such as manufacturer name, part number, nomenclature, price, and availability using manufacturer manuals or calling manufacturers; read and use blueprints, specifications, key codes, key charts, pin charts, order forms, and manufacturer's manuals; communicate verbally a concept for a master key system; communicate job-related information orally, such as the limitations of a locking device; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of FEBRUARY 4, 2019 to FEBRUARY 15, 2019.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
3. Applications accepted are subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3393 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-30-18 

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

