MAINTENANCE LABORER 

Class Code:       3112
Open Date:  11-16-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$37,458 to $54,789

DUTIES

A Maintenance Laborer does unskilled manual work for the City of Los Angeles.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Current employment with the City of Los Angeles; and
2. At least six months of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles performing duties involving maintenance or construction; and
3. A letter of recommendation from the personnel office of the employing department where training was received, which includes a statement from the department's willingness to hire the employee as a Maintenance Laborer. This letter must be attached to the application at the time of filing.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Maintenance Assistants who have completed a probationary period are eligible to request appointment to this class according to the provisions of Charter Section 1014, and will not be required to file for this examination.
2. A valid class B or C California Driver's license may be required prior to appointment as a Maintenance Laborer.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications WILL ONLY BE ACCEPTED ON THE CITY APPLICATION FORM. Applications may be obtained on our website at http://per.ci.la.ca.us/Forms/Application.pdf. 

Applications MAY ONLY be submitted to the Human Resources/Personnel Services Section of the City Department providing your letter of recommendation.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen the following day. This examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received.



SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Application Review  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of review of candidates' City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that minimum requirements are met. Since these reviews will be made solely on the basis of the written information contained on the candidate's City employment application, it is each candidate's responsibility to ensure that the application is complete with accurate descriptions of relevant experience.

NOTES:

1. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment as a Maintenance Laborer.
2. The incumbents of some Maintenance Laborer positions may be required to pass an annual or periodic work fitness evaluation to determine their eligibility for continued employment.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.



Class Code 3112 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11-16-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

