MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION HELPER

Class Code:       3115
Open Date:  12-08-17
                                             		     (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$39,672 to $56,438
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $57,503 to $71,451; and $64,310 to $79,886.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Maintenance and Construction Helper does a variety of semi-skilled manual tasks in construction, maintenance and repair activities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Six months as a Utility Pre-Craft Trainee with the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power; or
2. One year of full-time paid experience in construction, craft or landscaping work; or
3. One year of full-time paid experience in construction, craft or landscaping work while in the United States Armed Forces.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who have at least six months of the required experience in Requirement #2 or #3 may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the one-year requirement is met.
2. Active United States Military personnel may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until they have completed their military service and have been discharged with satisfactory performance. Proof of military service and satisfactory performance must be provided prior to appointment.
3. Applicants filing under Requirement 3 must submit at the time of filing their application a copy of their DD-214 or a copy of their military identification indicating End of Active Obligated Service (EAOS) date within six months from the application date. The copy of the DD-214 or military identification with EAOS must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the copy is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the DD-214 or military identification with EAOS at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.
4. In accordance with Section 608 of the Clean Air Act, an Environmental Protection Agency approved Technician Certificate may be required for some positions prior to appointment.
5. Some positions may require a valid California Class A, B or C driver's license prior to appointment or prior to completion of the probationary period. For positions requiring a valid California Class A or B driver's license, applicants must submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1808.1. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violations (such as DUI).
6. Some positions may require working in hazardous locations, such as confined spaces, near energized electrical equipment, and high voltage areas, and thus may be required to undergo annual medical examinations.

WHERE TO APPLY

When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.


NOTE:
Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, DECEMBER 21, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from December 8, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of a multiple-choice written test. In the written test, the following competencies may be evaluated: reading comprehension; mathematics; attention to detail; interpersonal skills; teamwork; safety focus including knowledge of: basic protective devices and personal protective equipment such as hard hats, safety belts, safety vests, safety glasses, and gloves sufficient to ensure safety of oneself and others when performing construction activities; basic safe lifting techniques, such as using legs instead of one's back, in order to be able to lift heavy objects manually in a safe manner; and job knowledge including knowledge of: the proper use of basic hand tools and small power tools, such as hammers, screwdrivers, saws, chisels, rotary and saber saws, drills, and routers to safely use in the completion of construction tasks; how to measure accurately with rulers and tape measures to locate and mark drilling and cutting locations on materials and surfaces, such as pipes, plastic, lumber, and drywall to ensure drilling and cutting is performed in the exact location necessary during construction; motor vehicle code related to driving passenger cars and light trucks and the ability to drive them safely in accordance with all of the State rules and regulations of the road to transport self, others and materials to construction sites; and other skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Maintenance and Construction Helper.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2018 in Los Angeles.  

NOTES:	

1. Some positions are located in the Owens Valley area; only applicants who will accept a position in the Owens Valley area will be considered for these positions.
2. This examination is based on a validation study.
3. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994 and City of Los Angeles policy, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and/or during employment in this class.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
6. The incumbents of some positions in this class may be required to pass an annual or periodic work fitness evaluation to determine their eligibility for continued employment in this class.
7. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
8. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
9. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
10. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3115 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12-08-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

