MARINE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGER

     Class Code:       9437
Open Date:  06-06-14

ANNUAL SALARY

$110,371 to 137,139 and $122,690 to $152,444
Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Marine Environmental Manager directs or assists in directing the activities of the Environmental Management Division of the Harbor Department; directs and manages the development and implementation of specialized environmental policies and programs through a professional environmental staff; and advises management of issues of environmental policy; and does related work.

REQUIREMENT

Eighteen months of full-time paid professional experience in a class at least at the level of either Marine Environmental Supervisor or Environmental Supervisor supervising a professional staff performing environmental activities.

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application form, each applicant is required to complete the Marine Environmental Manager Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Marine Environmental Manager Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Question Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed. 
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from a recognized four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional", non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
4. Some positions require a valid California driver's license. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if within the past 36 months they were convicted of a major moving violation, such as driving under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs, and may be disqualified if there are three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents within the past 36 months.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, JUNE 19, 2014.


SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's education, training, and experience as they provide the knowledge of: the environmental issues and problems encountered in a port facility and associated coastal regions; techniques for development or implementation of corrective environmental programs for marine and terrestrial ecology, air, water and noise pollution resulting from industrial uses at the port; effects of pollutants on air, soils, marine and terrestrial ecology and surface and ground water quality; technological advances which minimize the environmental impact of development projects; methods, procedures, and techniques used to monitor, evaluate, and investigate environmental issues; environmental laws, regulations and court decisions affecting the environmental protection of the harbor; supervisory principles and practices including planning, delegating, training, instructing, evaluating, counseling, disciplining and motivating subordinates; City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures including Equal Employment Opportunity; and the ability to prepare, plan, direct, and implement specialized harbor environmental policies and programs; formulate policy and recommend or advocate such policy to management; provide effective leadership and apply sound management principles; effectively represent the Department; deal tactfully and effectively with elected officials, government agencies, community organizations, and private industry; effectively communicate orally and in writing, in a clear, concise manner; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

The Qualifications Questionnaire will not be separately scored, but will be considered by the interview board in evaluating each candidate's qualifications. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board.

Candidates will be notified by mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of AUGUST 25, 2014 to SEPTEMBER 5, 2014.

NOTES:

1. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City Application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores, all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 9437. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06-06-14

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

