MARINE AQUARIUM CURATOR

																																									         Class Code:       2425
																																										Open Date:  09-15-17
																								(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$52,304 to $76,462 and $58,171 to $85,044

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Marine Aquarium Curator assists in the acquisition, preparation, and care of marine specimens and exhibits; supervises the activities of the scientific laboratory; develops the curricula for the educational programs conducted in the laboratory classroom and other public locations; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a major in a life science or education (as designated by an Education Department of an accredited four-year college or university), or a teaching credential; and
2. One year of full-time paid professional experience assisting in the acquisition and preparation of marine specimens for display or developing and implementing marine education programs for the general public at an aquarium or zoo environment.

PROCESS NOTES

1. For qualifying work experience gained outside the City of Los Angeles, the term ''professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional'', non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.  
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
4. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.




APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from September 15, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Judgment and Decision Making, Stress Tolerance, Supervision, Interpersonal Skills, Teamwork, Credibility, Program Responsibility, and Job Knowledge including knowledge of: environmental issues affecting marine life; Southern California coastal marine habitats and the specimen that reside in those habitats; the Linnaean taxonomy used to classify specimen into groups; laboratory equipment used to research, educate, preserve, store, and care for living and non-living marine specimen; methods and materials used to preserve non-living wet, dry, and hard specimen; the materials used to construct, install, and preserve exhibits and displays for living and non-living specimen and the methods used to simulate these environments and habitats; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Marine Aquarium Curator.

The interviews, which will be held in Los Angeles, are anticipated to begin during the period of NOVEMBER 27, 2017 to DECEMBER 8, 2017. Candidates invited to participate in the interview will be required to self-schedule themselves for a specific date and time, and may request to complete the interview on an electronic device (i.e., computer, mobile device, tablet, etc.) using the video messaging program Skype. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to self-schedule themselves, and request to complete their interview using Skype, if desired. Candidates will be required to self-schedule themselves by the date provided in the instructions sent to them via email. Candidates that do not self-schedule themselves within the required time will not be considered further in this examination.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
6. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidate's City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 2425 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09-15-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 


