MASONRY WORKER
Class Code:       3451
Open Date:  01-19-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$89,852 (flat-rated)

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Masonry Worker does skilled work in plastering, bricklaying and cement finishing on construction, repair, and alteration projects. 

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Completion of an apprenticeship as a bricklayer, plasterer, or cement finisher; or
2. Six years of full-time paid experience in one or more of these trades.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.            
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 must submit a copy of their apprenticeship certificate. Applicants must attach a copy of the Apprenticeship Certificate to the online application at the time of filing. The certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the certificate. Applicants who fail to submit the Apprentice Certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #2, equivalent experience in a training capacity as a Maintenance and Construction Helper or a Maintenance Laborer with the City of Los Angeles may be substituted for the above experience by submitting a "Verification of Work Experience" form. Applicants required to submit a VWE form may attach the completed form to their online application at the time of filing or will have seven (7) calendar days from the online submission date to email a copy of their completed VWE form, including the required signatures, to per.appdocs@lacity.org.  The subject line of your email must include the exam title, your name and indicate it is a VWE. In the body of your email, you must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number and contact phone number. Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
4. Some positions may require a valid California Class C and/or Class B driver's license and valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles, prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). For positions requiring a valid California Class B driver's license, candidates will be asked to submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1808.1 prior to appointment.



WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2018.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's experience, training, and professional qualifications as they provide the background needed to perform the duties of a Masonry Worker, including knowledge of: proper methods of mixing mortar, concrete, and plaster; proper space for nails and screws in lath application; proper orientation and overlapping for black paper, metal lath, and k-lath; sizes and overlapping methods of steel rebar and their proper placement and spacing in concrete forms and footings; when to perform each step in finishing concrete construction projects, brick or block structure, and tile projects; proper way of tiling a surface; types of grout to use; when to remove concrete forms; proper mixture of dry cement and mineral color; proper procedures of thinset and water; building and safety codes such as CAL/OSHA, City of Los Angeles, and Union codes for construction of scaffolds, ground safety, and related construction operations; proper way of tying rebar together using wire pliers and side cutters; types and quantities of resources (materials, tools, and labor) used for various kinds of projects sufficient to estimate quantities, and occasionally costs of required resources; and the ability to: determine when a surface is sufficiently dry; perform steps in concrete construction and tile projects; use tools such as electric drills, hammers, staplers, power nailers, and tin snips; use plastering tools and application techniques; use brown coat (final coat); use a transit or level; define the area of the structure using a batter board and string; properly and safely use excavation tools, carpenter's tools, rebar bending tools, hand and power concrete tools, tools for cutting and shaping brick, stone, and cement block, brick and block finishing tools; utilize tools used for repair of brick, block, and concrete; use a pavement breaker to excavate manholes; mix together the proper portions of various components of materials; lay out surface to be tiled; use tools for tile work; recognize and perform types of bonds used in brick and block work; setup scaffolding in a safe, level, and sturdy manner; read blueprints, sketches, and sewer maps; estimate quantities of materials, determine proper ratios and proportions, determine sizes and proper placement, and lay out work; lift and carry up to 94 pounds for short distances; guide and instruct other people in a way that is fair and professional and properly provide motivation and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time and location of the interviews which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of MARCH 19, 2018 to MARCH 30, 2018.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate. 
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
8. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
9. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, candidates for and incumbents of some positions in this class may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
10. The incumbents of some positions in this class may be required to pass an annual periodic work fitness evaluation to determine their eligibility for continued employment in this class.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 3451 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 01-19-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to:  http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


Class Code 3451 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 01-19-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

