MATERIALS TESTING TECHNICIAN   
                                       
Class Code:       7968
Open Date:  08-03-18 
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$50,718 to $74,145 and $56,522 to $82,643
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $63,558 to $78,968; $66,523 to $82,663; $72,537 to $90,138; $74,019 to $91,976; and $78,801 to $97,906.

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf. 

DUTIES

A Materials Testing Technician collects samples and performs routine to difficult standardized physical and chemical tests, in the field or laboratory, on soils, petroleum products, construction materials, sewage, industrial wastes and corrosion control devices; performs physical and electrical testing and installation of corrosion mitigation systems; inspects pipe fabrication and concrete and asphalt batching; and may supervise employees engaged in the above work; and submits findings in oral or written reports and takes corrective actions when required in routine cases.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION 

Successful completion of any combination of two courses in engineering, biology, chemistry, physics, geology, math, or computer science, from an accredited college or university.

PROCESS NOTES
	
1. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).	
2. Applicants that have completed courses in engineering, biology, chemistry, physics, geology, math, or computer science as stated in the requirement, must list their school name, appropriate course titles, their respective number of semester or quarter units, and completion dates for each course claimed as qualifying in the Supplemental Questions section of the on-line application. Applicants who fail to provide this information on their application will not be considered further in this examination.
3. In some positions in the Department of General Services, employees may be required to complete an on-the-job training program for the purpose of obtaining State Certification of competency in the testing of construction materials.
4. In some City departments, employees may be required to work a four-day, forty-hour workweek and be subject to weekend and evening work assignments.
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
6. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of completion of qualifying coursework. Applicants who wish to expedite this process may attach a copy of their transcripts (annotated with engineering, biology, chemistry, physics, geology, math, or computer science courses, credit earned, and grade received) in the Attachments section of the on-line application at the time of filing. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
 
APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, AUGUST 16, 2018.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the qualifying multiple-choice test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Multiple-Choice Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
                                       Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying multiple-choice test and an interview. The qualifying multiple-choice test will be administered and proctored on-line, and the following competencies may be evaluated: Reading Comprehension, Mathematics, Safety Focus, Teamwork, Written Communication, and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Materials Testing Technician.

Passing Score for the Qualifying Multiple-Choice Test
		
The passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying multiple-choice test is administered.  Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice test may be set at, above, or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying multiple-choice test in order to be scheduled for the interview.

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Analytical Ability, Safety Focus, Teamwork, Credibility, Oral Communication, and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Materials Testing Technician.

The qualifying multiple-choice test will be proctored and administered on-line during a single session. Candidates invited to participate in the qualifying on-line multiple-choice test will be able to take the test from any location using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will receive an email from the City of Los Angeles outlining the dates and specific steps on how to take the qualifying multiple-choice test on-line. It is anticipated that the remote proctored qualifying multiple-choice test will be held in OCTOBER 2018. Candidates who do not complete and submit the remote proctored qualifying multiple-choice test on-line using a computer by the specified date and time will not be considered further in this examination.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the multiple-choice test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
4. A final average score of 70% or higher in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.    
5. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates. 
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7968. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08-03-18 

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

