MOTION PICTURE AND TELEVISION MANAGER


Class Code:  1789     
Open Date:  11-17-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$120,080 to $175,559

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Motion Picture and Television Manager plans, develops and administers a comprehensive economic industry relations program to maintain, increase and facilitate motion picture/television industry activities; coordinates and works with all facets of the industry, including Film Liaison Offices within the State of California and various City departments; advises Mayor, City Council, Board of Public Works, and management of economic, policy and public relations effects of industry-related actions, including industry needs, rules and regulations, laws, and City film procedures and ordinances; evaluates legislative bills and local rules and ordinances and conducts analysis of said legislation; prepares policies, procedures, and guidelines to improve motion picture, television, and media production, including leveraging best available technology, such as social, web-based, or reality television; and does related work.


REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university; and 
2. Five years of full-time paid experience applying knowledge of industry regulations in the film and entertainment industry or five years of full-time paid professional public relations experience, two years of which required full-time responsibility for a government or community relations program, including contract management experience.

PROCESS NOTES 

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete a Motion Picture and Television Manager Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Motion Picture and Television Manager Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
3. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
4. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be submitted on-line by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2017.



In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from November 17, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, an expert review committee may be assembled to evaluate each candidate's qualification for the position of  Motion Picture and Television Manager. In this evaluation, the expert review committee will assess each candidate's training and experience based upon the information in the candidate's City employment application and the Qualification Questionnaire. Those candidates considered by the expert review committee as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Motion Picture and Television Manager, based solely on the information presented to the committee, will be invited to participate in the interview.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 and qualifications review as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's background and experience as they have provided the knowledge of: production aspects of the motion picture and television industry, including the location manager industry and its economic relationship to the community; principles and practices involved with industry relations with government; principles and practices of public relations, including media relations, promotional activities, advertising, community relations and public affairs; administrative and managerial aspects of City government; industry labor-management relations and government, municipal, industry or community policies and how they are developed; the ability to: plan, direct and evaluate the work of others; maintain records, prepare reports, budget requests and estimates; handle administrative details and problems; prepare written material; deal effectively with industry representatives, media representatives, public officials, residents, constituents and community groups; speak effectively in public; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additionally, the interview board will consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire in their overall evaluation of the candidates' qualifications. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of JANUARY 22, 2018 to FEBRUARY 2, 2018.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list. 
4. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates. 
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefits coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1789 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-17-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


