OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH NURSE
 Class Code:       2314
Open Date:  02-03-17
Revised: 02-23-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$72,309 to $88,635
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $56,710 to $70,449; $70,511 to 82,977; and $75,106 to $88,405.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

An Occupational Health Nurse performs professional nursing services including performing and assisting with post offer examinations, environmental health assessments, return-to-duty evaluations, cardiac stress testing, drug testing, tuberculosis screening, administering vaccinations, managing blood borne pathogen exposures, identifying and assessing safety risks, assisting in the development of policies and procedures, and conducting training and education.  An Occupational Health Nurse may also be responsible for managing workers' compensation cases. 

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS  

1. A valid Registered Nurse license issued by the California Board of Registered Nursing; and
2. One year of full-time paid professional nursing experience; and
3. A valid Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) card.

NOTES:

1. In addition to answering the regular City application supplemental questions, each applicant is required to complete the Occupational Health Nurse Qualifications Questionnaire and Training and Experience Questionnaire at the time of filing.  The Occupational Health Nurse Qualifications Questionnaire and Training and Experience Questionnaire are both located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application.  Applicants who fail to complete both questionnaires will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidate may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Experience in Ambulatory Care and/or Occupational Health Nursing is preferred.
4. An Occupational Health Nurse Certification issued by the American Board of Occupational Health Nurses is desired but not required.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and Training and Experience Questionnaires will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications, Qualifications Questionnaires, and Training and Experience Questionnaires must be submitted on-line by THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will have their Training and Experience Questionnaires scored in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from February 3, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

	Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Occupational Health Nurse may be evaluated based on the candidate's responses to the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of an Occupational Health Nurse based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 and qualifications review as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of training and experience, wherein candidates may be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background, personal qualifications and abilities, including knowledge of: theory, principles, and practices of professional nursing, specifically occupational health nursing, and the functions of the multi-disciplinary health team; specific systematic assessment procedures and processes; laboratory specimen collection procedures required to administer health screening examinations including respiratory evaluation, hearing conservation, chemical exposure, and pre-employment examination and treatment of illness and injury; relevant federal, State, and municipal laws and regulations (OSHA, EPA, NIOSH, California Nurse Practice Act) affecting the treatment of clients at City facilities; federal, State, local and equal employment opportunity laws specifically related to disabilities; HIPPA and the Privacy Act provisions relevant to the maintenance of confidential medical records; and ability to act independently within the scope of practice; follow provider instructions, legal provisions, policies and procedures; operate clinical devices; use medical supplies; use computers for data entry, tracking and reporting; accurately record health screening test results and maintain medical records and files; interact tactfully and with sensitivity	 with persons from diverse cultures and socio-economic backgrounds; interact with sensitivity and work effectively with providers and clients; communicate orally in an effective manner in order to interview clients and obtain medical history information, explain health screening and medical treatment procedures, and instruct, counsel and train clients on a variety of health related issues; and other necessary knowledge, skills and abilities.

The Training and Experience Questionnaires will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation.  The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the candidate's Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the expert review panel.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Based on City policy, before being hired in one of these positions, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol screening test.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list. 
6. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 2314 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 02-03-17 REV 02-23-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


