OFFICE ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN

Class Code:       7212
Open Date:  11-02-18
(Exam Open to All, including current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$45,121 to $65,959; $50,717 to $74,145; $56,522 to $82,643
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $57,900 to $71,931; $62,786 to $78,007; $65,396 to $81,264; $71,660 to $89,011; 74,666 to $92,748; $76,191 to $94,649; $79,156 to $98,344 and $86,192 to $107,093

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

An Office Engineering Technician performs office engineering work of sub-professional character in making computations, sketching, drafting, developing CAD drawings, reviewing construction plans prior to acceptance for completeness and/or compliance with Disabled Access, and assisting in researching, sometimes using various computer programs, to compile data required for the preparation of engineering and zoning reports, estimates, designs, contracts, specifications, plans and building permits; may review, organize, and interpret maps or mapping software or statistical data including logsheets, digital photographs and video records; may monitor data and prepare charts accordingly; may provide the public, business partners, contractors, or other governmental entities with information regarding real property descriptions and land title vesting, zoning or other information; may staff public counters; may use various computer programs to help track engineering projects, and may provide or assist in providing computer software and technical support.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Completion of one course in trigonometry from a high school, university, college, trade or technical school.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
2. Applicants must list the school name, location and completion date of the required course in the Supplemental Question Section of the on-line application. Applicants who fail to do so will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed. 
3. Graduation from high school or GED equivalency and completion of a course in drafting and Computer Aided Drafting (CAD) is desired but not required. 
4. In some positions, Office Engineering Technicians are required to provide information to City personnel and a variety of people from other government agencies and the community, and must be able to communicate clearly and understandably in English.
5. In some City departments, employees may be required to work a four-day, 40-hour workweek, or work 80 hours over nine weekends, and be subject to weekend and evening work assignments.
6. In some City departments, upon appointment, Office Engineering Technicians may be required to furnish an automobile, properly insured, for use in City service. Mileage will be paid on the basis of established rates.



WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Multiple-Choice Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination consists entirely of a weighted multiple-choice test administered and proctored on-line. In the on-line multiple-choice test, the following competencies may be evaluated: reading comprehension; mathematics; learning ability; responsiveness and follow-up; customer service; teamwork; oral communication; and job knowledge, including knowledge of: computer software applications; English grammar usage; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Office Engineering Technician.

The multiple-choice test will be proctored and administered on-line during a single session. Candidates invited to participate in the on-line multiple-choice test will be able to take the test from a remote location using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection or will have the option to take the test onsite at a City facility. Candidates will receive and e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the dates and specific steps on how to take the multiple-choice test on-line. It is anticipated that the remote proctored multiple-choice test will be held in JANUARY 2019. Candidates who do not complete and submit the multiple-choice test on-line using a computer by the specified date and time will not be considered further in this examination. 

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rules, Sec. 4.24, review periods maybe combined. Candidates in the examination may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23 as applicable and within the required timeframe; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN 
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7212 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-02-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

Class Code 7212 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-02-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

