OPERATIONS AND STATISTICAL RESEARCH ANALYST

Class Code:       1779
Open Date:  11-03-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$71,263 to $101,393 and $85,107 to $121,104
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $104,775 to $130,165; $109,891 to $136,513; $110,309 to 137,056; and $123,275 to $153,154.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per/lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_Dwp.pdf. 
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

An Operations and Statistical Research Analyst conducts analysis and research related to urban planning, transportation, airports, utilities, police and other citywide planning and operational issues, and prepares and interprets quantitative analyses through the application of statistical and quantitative analysis concepts and techniques, mathematical models and simulation programs; may use statistical and general software packages involving the use of a personal computer or mainframe terminal; prepares forecasts and develops forecasting models; may supervise and participate in the work of a small staff engaged in the above work; and performs other related duties.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1.	Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with 12 semester or 18 quarter units in upper-division mathematics or statistics; and
2.	Two (2) years of full-time paid professional experience in applying advanced statistical or mathematical techniques.

Satisfactory completion of 15 semester units or 20 quarter units of graduate level work in statistical or quantitative analyses may be substituted for one year of the required professional experience.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience is met.
2. Applicants must list their school name and location, type of degree earned and major in the Education Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to provide this information on their application will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
3. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Operations and Statistical Research Analyst Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Operations and Statistical Research Analyst Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
4. Applicants wishing to substitute completion of 15 semester units or 20 quarter units of graduate level work in statistical or quantitative analyses for experience must list their school name and location, approximate course titles, their respective number of semester or quarter units, and completion dates for each course claimed as qualifying in the text box which will appear in the Supplemental Questions section of the on-line application.
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accredited agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
6. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position.  Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
7. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree and/or coursework.

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010(b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training in one or more of the following areas. Only persons possessing one or more of the following as of the close of the filing period may be considered for appointment to fill such positions.

1. Two years of full-time paid experience performing daily large scale data gathering, database administration, network communication, software programming and statistical analysis using the MV-90 software program.
2. Two years of full-time paid experience performing regular data gathering, statistical analysis, report development, and extensive research using Oracle Siebel or Cisco Unified Contact Center Enterprise.
3. Two years of full-time paid experience performing daily large scale data gathering, database management, statistical related programming and analysis using Statistical Analysis System (SAS) or R-Project.
4. A bachelor's degree from an accredited four-year college or university with a dual major in Economics and Mathematics, or a major in Economics and a minor in Mathematics, or a major in Mathematics and a minor in Economics.

NOTE:

Those individuals that desire to be considered for Selective Certification 1, 2, 3, and 4 as described above, must respond to the Selective Certification Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Selective Certification Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Selective Certification Questionnaire will not be considered further in selective certification.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.

APPLICATION DEADLINE


Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be submitted on-line by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from November 3, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.


QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW


Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, an expert review committee may be assembled to evaluate each candidate's qualification for the position of Operations and Statistical Research Analyst. In this evaluation, the expert review committee will assess each candidate's training and experience based upon the information in the candidate's City employment application and the Qualification Questionnaire. Those candidates considered by the expert review committee as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of an Operations and Statistical Research Analyst, based solely on the information presented to the committee, will be invited to participate in the interview.


SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 and qualifications review as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:


Examination Weight:  Interview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of training, experience, and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's experience, training, and professional qualifications, including knowledge of:  advanced statistical techniques and procedures, mathematics as applied to statistics, and the application of statistical techniques in management problems; principles of using and designing charts, tables, diagrams, and graphs for reporting and recording data and the principles of statistical report writing; the theory and techniques of operations research; principles, techniques, and sources of information applicable to the collection, analysis (including forecasting), and presentation of social, economic, utility related load (including water and power) and physical data; mathematics used to solve statistical problems; principles and practices of supervision, including labor relations and Equal Employment Opportunity principles; and the ability to: use computer programs for complex statistical and operational situations; design and conduct research and statistical studies including survey research studies; logically and creatively approach research problems; plan procedures and techniques for the statistical or mathematic analysis of various problems; independently gather, organize, manipulate, and analyze data using computers; validate system generated results; deal tactfully and effectively with subordinates, management, and officials from other government agencies; give technical guidance and advice to other professionals on research techniques and concepts and communicate these in a clear manner in layperson terms; prepare clearly written reports; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additionally, the interview board will consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire in their overall evaluation of the candidates' qualifications. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board.


Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interviews, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated interviews will begin during the period of JANUARY 15, 2018 to JANUARY 26, 2018.


NOTES:

1. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. In conjunction with Civil Services Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1779 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-03-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

