PARK MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR

Class Code:       3145
Open Date:  10-26-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$51,448 to $75,188
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $83,728 to $88,405 and $87,341 to $92,206

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
3. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Park Maintenance Supervisor directly supervises a group of employees engaged in grounds and/or golf course maintenance, building custodial maintenance, or landscaping; or directs the grounds maintenance, building maintenance, or repair activities for a major organizational unit or for a geographic area consisting of numerous parks, golf courses, or Department of Water and Power high-voltage energized facilities; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; and does related work.

Individuals appointed to a position in this class may be required to work evenings, weekends or holidays.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience as an Irrigation Specialist, Senior Gardener or in a class at that level and which provides experience in supervision of employees engaged in gardening; or
2. One year full-time paid experience as noted above and one year education (30 semester units or 45 quarter units) at an accredited college or university with at least 12 semester or 18 quarter units in horticulture, botany, or a related field.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the past 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. A California Department of Pesticide Regulation, Pest Control Advisor License and/or a Qualified Applicator's Certificate may be required for some positions.
4. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 must list the school name, location, course titles with number of semester or quarter units, and completion dates in the Supplemental Questions section of the on-line application at the time of filing.
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
6. Candidates completing the examination process may be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree and/or coursework.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2018.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

Your examination score will be based entirely on an evaluation of your qualifications by interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: judgment and decision making; safety focus; objectivity; responsiveness and follow-up; interpersonal skills; workforce management; leadership; and job knowledge; which include knowledge of horticultural requirements and identification of indoor and outdoor plants, grasses, soil types, and fertilizers; types and uses of insecticides, herbicides, pesticides, fungicides and other methods used to maintain and control plant growth, rodents, disease, and insects; types, characteristics and uses of irrigation equipment; operation and safety of hand and power tools; planting and maintaining, methods, material, and equipment used in fertilizing, irrigating, propagating, cultivating, spraying, pruning, mowing and trimming; pruning requirements and techniques; plant and tree planting procedures, soil amendments, staking, and tying; use and care of gardening, maintenance equipment, tools and specialized equipment, and safe working practices applicable to their use; grass maintenance; principles and practices of landscaping design; landscaping, irritation, and drainage methods and techniques; City personnel practices, including Equal Employment Opportunity principles, progressive discipline guidelines, and Memoranda of understanding; supervisory principles and practices, including planning, prioritizing and scheduling work, delegating, motivating, evaluating performance, commending and disciplining, counseling, implementing effective employee relations, and training; principles and practices of inventory control and personnel utilization; safe working principles and practices in accordance with Occupational Safety rules and regulations; job-related safety programs and practices; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities. 

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Park Maintenance Supervisor. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JANUARY 14, 2019 TO JANUARY 25, 2019.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin. 
5. A final average score of 70% in the interview is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3145 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10-26-18	

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

