
PARKING ENFORCEMENT MANAGER

Class Code:       9025
Open Date:  02-19-16 
REVISED: 02-25-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

						
ANNUAL SALARY

$86,610 to $123,255 and $101,727 to $144,740 

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Parking Enforcement Manager directs through subordinate supervisors parking enforcement and traffic control activities and special operations in several geographic areas of the City; promotes the parking enforcement program by establishing rapport and maintaining liaisons with the public, residential and business communities, and public and private agencies; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective workforce; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Senior Traffic Supervisor II or III with the City of Los Angeles; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Parking Manager with the City of Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 2016.



NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight: Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of training and experience, wherein candidates will be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background, personal qualifications and abilities, including knowledge of supervisory and administrative principles and practices required to plan, direct, coordinate and review parking enforcement and traffic control activities, including discipline, grievance procedures, equal employment opportunity, and memorandum of understanding provisions applicable to subordinate personnel; preparing clear, concise and accurate reports; laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, policies and standards applicable to the parking enforcement and traffic control activities of the City; safety principles and practices; dealing tactfully and effectively with City Officials, other employees, and the public;  and other necessary knowledge and abilities.

The Training and Experience Questionnaire will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, APRIL 16, 2016 in Los Angeles. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the test.

Training and Experience Questionnaires and City employment applications for all candidates meeting the minimum requirements will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation.  The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications as described on the candidate's Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the review panel.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
6. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.  

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 9025 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 02-19-16 Revised 02-25-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

