PARKING METER TECHNICIAN

Class Code:       3738
Open Date:  11-06-15
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$48,963 to $66,001

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower salary range positions.

DUTIES

A Parking Meter Technician patrols designated areas daily to inspect, adjust, install, remove, and repair electronic parking meters and other parking devices; and cleans, overhauls and makes major shop repairs on parking meter control and mechanisms.

REQUIREMENT

Two years of full-time paid experience in the assembly, maintenance, or repair of complex electronic/electro-mechanical devices such as office machines, computer and other electronic equipment, electronically-controlled coin-operated devices or card readers.

Successful completion of one year of education from an accredited institution in a program involving the assembly, maintenance, or repair of complex electronic/electro-mechanical devices such as office machines, computer and other electronic equipment, electronically-controlled coin-operated devices may be substituted for a maximum of one year of full-time paid experience.

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license and a good driving record are required prior to appointment. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. For applicants substituting education for experience lacking, one year of education is equivalent to 30 semester or 40 quarter units. Applicants who wish to substitute education for experience lacking, must list their school name and location, course title with the number of semester or quarter units, and completion dates in the Education section of the application.
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from an institution accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations.


NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from November 6, 2015 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of a multiple-choice written test, in which candidates may be examined for knowledge of:  parking meter devices including all working parts sufficient to perform service and repairs; hand and power tools used to repair parking meter device; safety practices and procedures including alertness to environmental hazards; basic arithmetic; the ability to: operate shop machinery; read and interpret maps, diagrams, manuals, and written instructions; oral communication and interpersonal skills; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

The written test will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, JANUARY 16, 2016 in Los Angeles.  Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE: 

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3738 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-06-15

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

