PARK RANGER	
					
Class Code:       1966
Open Date:  07-27-18
Revised:  07-31-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$52,158 to $76,274



NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Park Ranger provides public assistance and emergency services, including first aid, crowd and traffic control, firefighting, and search and rescue; patrols City parks, beaches, and other facilities to ensure park security; interprets and enforces City regulations and Municipal and Penal Code sections regarding park use; prepares and presents interpretive nature and environmental programs; and may provide radio communication to ranger units.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS


1. U.S. citizenship, or must have applied for U.S. citizenship before the date of the Park Ranger application; and
2. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university, with a major in Park Administration, Recreation, Botany, Zoology, Biology, Fire Science, Criminal Justice, or other field-oriented Natural, Social or Behavioral Science, or a closely related field. 
3. The following experience may be substituted for the education lacking on a year-for-year basis:
(a) Full-time experience, as a Park Ranger or other law enforcement officer with a recognized peace officer organization;
(b) Full-time experience, in the protection (or preparation and presentation of scientific information related to vegetation, wildlife, ecosystems or historical significance) of a park, forest, or public recreational or historical area or facility; 
(c) Full-time experience as a Security Officer with the City of Los Angeles;
(d) Full-time experience as a firefighter, paramedic, or EMT;
(e) Full-time experience as a lifeguard with a governmental agency.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Non-citizens must indicate in the Special Licenses Box of the online City employment application the date they applied for U.S. citizenship. Non-citizens must obtain U.S. citizenship as soon as possible after being hired for continued employment.
2. See Job Preview for additional information regarding the duties and requirements of a Park Ranger. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Job Preview Questionnaire (JPQ), the Preliminary Background Application (PBA) and the Training and Experience (T&E) Questionnaire at the time of filing. Candidates who fail to submit the application, JPQ, PBA, and T&E Questionnaire at the time of filing will not be considered candidates in this examination and their application will not be processed.
3. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
4. Candidates must be at least 20 1/2 years of age at the time of hire.
5. A Standard First Aid and CPR or EMT-1 certificate is desired, but not required.



WHERE TO APPLY

All applications, Job Preview Questionnaires, Preliminary Background Application Forms, and Training and Experience Questionnaires WILL ONLY BE ACCEPTED ONLINE. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Filing may be closed without prior notice after a sufficient number of applications are received. For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen the following day. Candidates will be notified later by email of the exact date, time, and location of the test.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

THE DAY OF THE EXAMINATION
 
* Bring a valid State or Federal issued photo identification card with your signature. 
  

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:     Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying(Pass/Fail)
		              Physical Abilities Test (PAT). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying(Pass/Fail)
		              Training and Experience  (T&E) Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist of three parts: 1) a qualifying (pass/fail) multiple-choice written test, 2) a qualifying (pass/fail) physical abilities test, and 3) a training and experience (T&E) questionnaire.  

QUALIFYING MULTIPLE-CHOICE TEST: Candidates must pass a qualifying test, consisting of multiple-choice questions, which may examine for candidate's knowledge of interpersonal and public relations skills, English usage and grammar, reading comprehension, and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities. 

The multiple-choice written test will either be administered in-person or on-line during a single session. If the written test is administered in-person, candidates will be notified later, by email, of the date, time, and location of the written test in Los Angeles. If the written test is administered on-line, candidates invited to participate in the remote multiple-choice written test will be required to take the test from any location using a computer and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to take the test on-line. 


QUALIFYING PHYSICAL ABILITIES TEST:  Candidates must pass a qualifying a Physical Abilities Test designed to measure coordination, strength, and endurance.

The physical abilities test will be held in Los Angeles. Applicants will be notified by e-mail of the exact date and time of the examination. Candidates who do not complete both the online multiple-choice written test and physical abilities test will be considered to have failed the examination.  Only those candidates who pass the qualifying physical abilities test and the qualifying written test will have their T&E scored.

TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE QUESTIONNAIRE: This evaluation will take place only for candidates who achieve a passing score on both the Qualifying Multiple-Choice Test and Physical Abilities Test. The Park Ranger Training and Experience Questionnaires and City employment applications of these candidates will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the candidate's City application and Training and Experience Questionnaire. In the T&E, applicants may be examined for their written communication as well as their judgment and decision making, ability to keep composed under stressful circumstances, and their ability to effectively communicate with members of the public.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Park Ranger.


APPOINTMENT IS SUBJECT TO:

* Possession of a valid California driver's license, AND
* Passing a thorough and comprehensive background investigation, AND
* Completion of a thorough medical examination, including a psychological inventory which includes a written test and may include a clinical interview, AND
* Based on City Policy, before being hired, candidates may be required to undergo a DRUG and ALCOHOL screening test.
* Signing the Acknowledgment of Reimbursement of Park Ranger Training Costs.

CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT

A Park Ranger's initial assignment will be in a position that has been designated as a temporary training position by the Civil Service Commission. Employment in such positions is for a limited duration in which the trainee is expected to successfully complete a law enforcement training program approved by the California Peace Officer Standards and Training (POST). Failure to successfully complete this training will lead to termination. Upon completion of the training program, employees will receive a regular appointment to the class of Park Ranger and begin a six-month probationary period in the Department of Recreation and Parks. Park Rangers are subject to reassignment of work locations, rotating work shifts, and changing days off.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
4. City Ordinance #171665 requires that the costs of Park Ranger training are subject to repayment to the City by the Park Ranger, on a pro-rated basis, if the Park Ranger leaves City employment within 60 months of completing training, and if, within one year of leaving the City, accepts an equivalent position with an enforcement agency.
5. You may take this examination every six months. Your name may be removed from the open competitive eligible list after six months.
6. A final average score of 70% in the evaluation of overall qualifications and a passing score on the multiple-choice test and physical abilities test portions of the examination are required to be placed on the eligible list.

NOTICE: 

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.


THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 1966 CONT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  07-27-18 REV 07-31-18 

Class Code 1966 CONT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  07-27-18 REV 07-31-18 


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 


