PAYROLL ANALYST
Class Code:       1630
Open Date:  03-18-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$63,767 to $93,229 and $73,288 to $107,156 

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Payroll Analyst works specifically for the Controller's Office and is responsible for processing centralized payroll, including oversight of all departmental payroll operations, for the City of Los Angeles; analyzes and interprets all policies, procedures, rules and regulations relating to the City of Los Angeles payroll to insure the accuracy of employee paychecks; supervises or oversees a group of professional, administrative and/or clerical employees; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; and performs related work.

REQUIREMENTS

1. A bachelor's degree from an accredited four-year college or university and three years of full-time paid experience in a Citywide payroll operation or comparable operation, assisting or supervising in the administration, preparation, analysis and oversight of centralized or departmental payroll operations; or
2. An associate's degree from an accredited college or university and six years of full-time paid experience in the administration, preparation, analysis and oversight of centralized or departmental payroll operations, as a Payroll Supervisor with the City of Los Angeles. 
 
NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California's driver's license may be required prior to appointment. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
3. An associate's degree is equivalent to 60 semester units or 90 quarter units. 
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.




APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the Interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from March 18, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Advisory
								     Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and professional development, and the knowledge of: HR and payroll processes; procedures and practices in payroll computation; general accounting and bookkeeping principles; electronic data processing methods, equipment, and applications related to payroll systems; techniques of training, instructing, and evaluating subordinates' work performance; techniques for counseling, disciplining, and motivating subordinate personnel; effective safety principles and practices; Equal Employment Opportunity; and the ability to: prepare and present oral communication and reports; make oral and written recommendations concisely and logically; deal tactfully and effectively with elected officials, representatives of public and private agencies, employees, and the general public; prepare clear and precise written communication reports; prepare and provide clear and concise presentations using various computer programs; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities. 

On the same day as the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material on a topic related to the duties and responsibilities of a Payroll Analyst.  This essay material will not be separately scored, but it will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate's qualifications. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory essay will be disqualified. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their advisory essay responses.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews for this examination will begin during the period of MAY 16, 2016 TO MAY 27, 2016.

NOTES:	

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  This Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.  
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
5. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are currently eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis. 
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position. 
THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS


The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 1630 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03-18-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

