PERFORMING ARTS DIRECTOR
Class Code:       2449
Open Date:  02-03-17
REVISED: 02-08-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$74,854 to $109,432 

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
                             
DUTIES  

The Performing Arts Director plans, organizes and directs the work of employees engaged in the production and presentation of performing arts programs and events that promote public interest; oversees the City's municipal theatres; advises on public policy issues related to performing arts; develops and implements plans to meet the City's community and cultural needs through the arts; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities. 

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university; and either
2. Three years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles at the level of Performing Arts Program Coordinator with experience in planning, staging and producing professional visual, musical, theatrical, or dance programs or productions; or 
3. Four years of full-time paid experience managing, booking, producing and/or presenting professional festival, musical, theatrical, or dance productions; or
4. Four years of full-time paid experience designing, implementing, and managing large-scale art programs or events, which include fund development strategies and stakeholder outreach.

Full-time paid performing arts experience, including behind-the-scenes coordination, may be substituted on a year for year basis for each year of education lacking.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Performing Arts Director Qualifications Questionnaire and the Training and Experience Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Performing Arts Director Qualifications Questionnaire and the Training and Experience Questionnaire are both located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire and the Training and Experience Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for the examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Experience in facilities management is desired.
5. Upon appointment, a Performing Arts Director may be required to furnish his or her own automobile, properly insured for use in City service. Mileage will be paid according to established rates.
6. For applicants applying under Requirement #2 and #3, the term "professional" is defined as experience presenting or producing an event that is held at an established arts marketplace or venue.
7. For applicants applying under Requirement #4, the phrase "large-scale art programs" refers to programs that attract a minimum of 1,000 people in a single-day event.
8. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
9. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree or coursework.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications, Qualifications Questionnaires, and Training and Experience Questionnaires will only be accepted on-line at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs  for Promotional Examinations from 8:00 a.m. Tuesday, February 14, 2017 to 11:59 p.m., Thursday, February 16, 2017. Applications submitted before the start of the filing period will not be accepted. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications, Qualifications Questionnaires, and Training and Experience Questionnaires will only be accepted on-line on the following three days: From 8:00 a.m. Tuesday, February 14, 2017 to 11:59 p.m., Thursday, February 16, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from February 3, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Performing Arts Director may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Performing Arts Director, based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review, will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS  

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 and qualifications review as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:   Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying 
		              Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire and an Interview. In the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire candidates may be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background and personal qualifications, including knowledge of: the methods of planning and staging indoor and outdoor festivals, performances, and other performing arts events; promotional, administrative, and technical aspects of operating a diversified performing arts program; available resources within the performing arts community of the City of Los Angeles; costume design, set scenery design and construction, lighting equipment, and sound equipment involved in theater productions; national and international performing arts sectors; principles and practices of supervision and administration, including planning, delegating, controlling, directing, coordinating, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending and evaluating the work of staff; and the ability to direct the operation and management of multiple theater facilities in a university, public sector organization, or non-profit arts institution,  including presenting, producing, operating, staffing, budgeting, marketing and fundraising; create and implement strategic work plans and program designs; communicate effectively both orally and in writing; prepare comprehensive written reports and recommendations; establish and maintain a positive and constructive work environment; deal tactfully and effectively with employees, prospective partners, and the public; collaborate across diverse communities in order to assist the City of Los Angeles in achieving cultural equity and inclusion goals; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

The qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications as described on the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the expert review panel.

Passing Score for Qualifying Test

The passing score for the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying test is administered.  Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire in order to be invited to the interview.

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's work experience and professional development as they have provided the background necessary to perform the duties of a Performing Arts Director, including knowledge of: the methods of planning and staging indoor and outdoor festivals, performances, and other performing arts events; promotional, administrative, and technical aspects of operating a diversified performing arts program; available resources within the performing arts community of the City of Los Angeles, including creative space, funding, artists and presenters; costume design, set scenery design and construction, sound equipment, and lighting equipment involved in theater productions;  national and international performing arts sectors; safety principles and practices related to event production; principles and practices of supervision and administration, including planning, delegating, controlling  directing, coordinating, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending and evaluating the work of staff; and the ability to direct the operation and management of multiple theater facilities in a university, public sector organization, or non-profit arts institution, including presenting, producing, operating, staffing, budgeting, marketing and fundraising; market, promote, and evaluate performing arts programs; maintain operating and administrative records; create and implement strategic work plans and program designs; effectively manage time and prioritize multiple assignments; use computer software programs; communicate effectively both orally and in writing; prepare comprehensive written reports and recommendations; establish and maintain a positive and constructive work environment; deal tactfully and effectively with employees, prospective partners, and the public; collaborate across diverse communities in order to assist the City of Los Angeles in achieving cultural equity and inclusion goals; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period under the provisions of Charter Section 1011.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required in the interview portion of the examination to be placed on the eligible list.
5. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis. 
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 2449 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 02-03-17 REV 02-08-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORUNITY EMPLOYER


