PERSONNEL ANALYST
 Class Code:       1731
 Open Date:  09-21-18
Revised: 09-26-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$70,156 to $102,562

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Personnel Analyst performs professional staff work by assembling, analyzing, and interpreting data and by preparing correspondence and reports with recommendations to management on diverse personnel administration activities, issues, and problems; provides advice and guidance to internal and external customers; may supervise or act as a lead worker to staff involved in personnel management activities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. One year of full-time paid experience in a class at the level of Management Assistant performing professional duties in personnel administration; administrative analysis, or departmental administration; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Management Aide performing duties in personnel administration, administrative analysis, or departmental administration; or
3. One year of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Chief Clerk or in a clerical class at least at that level.

A bachelor's degree from an accredited four-year college or university may substitute for one year of the required full-time paid experience as a Management Aide in Requirement #2.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement has been met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. For qualifying work experience in Requirement #1, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional," experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approving agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
5. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed below:

From 8:00 am Friday, September 21, 2018 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, October 4, 2018
From 8:00 am Friday, October 25, 2019 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, November 7, 2019
From 8:00 am Friday, October 23, 2020 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, November 5, 2020

The examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. Filing periods may change without prior notice or additional dates may be added, as needed, at a later date. For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen on the dates noted in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:   Multiple-Choice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying
        Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
			           Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying multiple-choice test, an advisory essay, and an interview. In the qualifying multiple-choice test, candidates may be examined for the following competencies may be evaluated: Judgment and Decision Making, Analytical Ability, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of applicable provisions of the City Charter and Administrative Code, Rules of the Board of Civil Service Commissioners, Personnel Department Policies, and Personnel Procedures Manual; laws, regulations, and policies related to equal employment opportunity; the City's Employee Relations Ordinance and labor relations policies and procedures; principles, practices, methods, and techniques of public administration within the City of Los Angeles, including those regarding personnel-related authority, responsibilities, and interrelations of the Mayor, Council, Civil Service Commission, Employee Relations Board, City Administrative Officer, Personnel Department, and operating departments; the City's Classification Plan including positions and classes; selection principles, practices, and methods, including standard job analysis techniques and employment testing techniques and their uses; Federal, State, and local laws, regulations, rules, policies, and procedures related to the City's employee benefit programs, selection, and workplace safety; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Personnel Analyst. 

The multiple-choice test will be proctored and administered on-line during a single session. Candidates invited to participate in the on-line multiple-choice test will be able to take the test as instructed from a remote location using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the dates and specific steps on how to take the multiple-choice test and advisory essay on-line. It is anticipated that the remote proctored multiple-choice test will be administered between SATURDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2018 and MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2018. Candidates who do not complete and submit the remote proctored multiple-choice test on-line using a computer by the specified date and time as instructed will not be considered further in this examination. Additional test dates may be added as needed.

Candidates who complete the on-line multiple-choice test will also be required to prepare some written material related to the work of Personnel Analyst employed by the City of Los Angeles. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate's qualifications.

The advisory essay will be administered on-line. Candidates who complete the on-line multiple-choice test will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps needed to complete the on-line advisory essay. Candidates will be required to complete the on-line advisory essay between SATURDAY, JANUARY 12, 2019 and MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2019. Additional instructions will be sent via e-mail. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory essay as instructed may be disqualified.

Passing Score for Qualifying Multiple-Choice Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying multiple-choice test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice test may be set either above or below 70%. 

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying multiple-choice test and must complete the advisory essay in order to be invited to the interview. 

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's training and experience as they provide the candidate with the background needed to perform the duties of a Personnel Analyst, including the following competencies: Judgment and Decision Making, Analytical Ability, Self-Management, Stress Tolerance, Interpersonal Skills, Customer Service, Written Communication, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of applicable provisions of the City Charter and Administrative Code, Rules of the Board of Civil Service Commissioners, Personnel Department Policies, and Personnel Procedures Manual; the City's Employee Relations Ordinance and labor relations policies and procedures; principles, practices, methods, and techniques of public administration within the City of Los Angeles, including those regarding personnel-related authority, responsibilities, and interrelations of the Mayor, Council, Civil Service Commission, Employee Relations Board, City Administrative Office, Personnel Department, and operating departments; Federal, State, and local laws, regulations, rules, policies, and procedures related to the City's employee benefit programs, selection, and workplace safety; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. 

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the qualifying multiple-choice test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. You may take the Personnel Analyst multiple-choice test only once every 24 months under this bulletin. If you have taken the Personnel Analyst multiple-choice test during an open filing period in the Personnel Department within the last 24 months under this bulletin, you may not file for this examination at this time.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. Candidates will have seniority credits added to their examination grade at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service in those classes which provide qualifying experience for this class.
8. Your rank on the employment list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of the examination are merged onto one list.
9. Your name will be removed from the eligible list after 24 months.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. 
Class Code 1731 CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09-21-18 REV 09-26-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


