PHOTOGRAPHER

Class Code:       1793
Open Date:  04-15-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$47,752 to $69,822; $54,935 to $80,325; and $57,858 to $84,605 
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $64,665 to $80,325  

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Higher salaries are paid for night work.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
4. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Photographer takes black and white and color still photographs and video; digitally develops and processes images; and prints, enlarges, reduces, and copies photographs. A Photographer works with computers, processing digital image files. A Photographer also works as a videographer and may operate commercial-type video recorders and electronic editing equipment, video cameras, and sound recording equipment.

REQUIREMENT

Three years of full-time paid experience in black and white and color still photography or video camera photography.

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL 28, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the qualifying written test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from April 15, 2016, in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Written Test. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying
	                        Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying written test and a weighted interview. In the qualifying written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, the following competencies may be evaluated: judgment and decision making, attention to detail, safety focus, equipment operation, and job knowledge, including knowledge of: proper use of still and video camera lighting in order to enhance the total overall desired effect; characteristics of still and video cameras, such as digital and/or infrared cameras, in order to select the appropriate equipment for the job; still and video composition, such as the necessary elements needed in a particular photograph including camera angles, filters, lighting, and other methods or techniques, in order to create an aesthetically pleasing final product; proper handling techniques for digital multimedia such as photographs and video; digital editing of video and still images, through the use of specialized software, such as Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Premiere, and Final Cut Pro, in order to produce professional products; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

The qualifying written test will be administered electronically during a single half-day session held on SATURDAY, JUNE 11, 2016. Candidates invited to participate in the qualifying written test will be required to self-schedule themselves for a specific time and location. The testing locations will be available throughout the Los Angeles Metropolitan area and within and outside the state of California. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to self-schedule themselves, and will be required to do so by FRIDAY, JUNE 10, 2016. Candidates that do not self-schedule themselves within the required time will not be considered further in this examination. 

Passing Score for Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set at, above, or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying written test in order to be scheduled for the interview.

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: judgment and decision making, attention to detail, safety focus, sensory perception, stress tolerance, oral communication, and job knowledge, including knowledge of: still and video image composition in order to create an aesthetically pleasing final product; digital editing of video and still images, through the use of specialized software, such as Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Premiere, and Final Cut Pro, in order to produce professional products; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

NOTE:		

As part of the interview, candidates will be required to present to the interview panel members a portfolio with samples of their photography work. While the interview panel members will not assign a separate score to the samples, the interview panel members will consider the quality of the samples in their overall evaluation of the candidate's qualifications.  Candidates should expect the interview panel members to discuss the samples with them during their interviews. Specific information regarding the portfolio of photography samples to be presented to the interview panel will be e-mailed to those candidates invited to participate in the interview.  All samples will be returned to the candidates after the conclusion of their interviews.  In addition, during the interview, candidates should expect to review a series of black and white and/or color photographs in order to evaluate and discuss the technical composition and quality of each photograph. 

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/JobAnalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Photographer. 

NOTES:
	
1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the qualifying written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodation to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% or above in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

Class Code 1793. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04-15-16











AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

