PIPEFITTER	

     Class Code:      3433
														Open Date: 08-03-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$94,455 (flat-rated)
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $101,622 (flat-rated) 

NOTES:

1. In some positions, higher salaries are paid for hazardous work.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Pipefitter does skilled work in the installation, replacement, maintenance, and repair of industrial steam, oil, air, gas, water, steam heating and other pipe systems, including high pressure and high temperature systems.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Completion of a recognized apprenticeship as a pipefitter; or
2. Five years of full-time paid experience as a Mechanical Helper with the City of Los Angeles working with a Pipefitter; or
3. Six years of full-time paid experience performing installation, replacement, maintenance and repair of industrial steam, oil, air, gas, water, steam heating and other pipe systems, including high pressure and high temperature systems.

PROCESS NOTES  

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 must submit an Apprenticeship Certificate at the time of filing. The copy of the Certificate must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the Certificate is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it, and WILL NOT be considered further in this examination. 
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 using City of Los Angeles experience in a City class other than as a Mechanical Helper must submit a copy of their City of Los Angeles "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form with the required signatures, verifying their experience working with a Pipefitter. The form may be downloaded at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf. Applicants may attach the completed VWE form to their on-line application at the time of filing, or will have seven (7) calendar days from the on-line submission date to email a copy of their completed VWE form to per.appdocs@lacity.org. The subject line of your email must include the exam title, your name and indication it is a VWE. In the body of your email, you must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number and contact phone number. Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination.
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
5. During the probationary period in the Los Angeles World Airports, Department of Water and Power, and Department of Public Works, Pipefitters may be required to pass the tests for Operator Qualification in accordance with Section IX of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, and become certified as a High Pressure Welder in accordance with Section IX of the ASME Code.
6. Positions in this job class in the Department of Public Works - Bureau of Sanitation may be subject to periodic medical work fitness evaluations and also may require that employees be clean shaven for use of Self Contained Breathing Apparatus. This is based on OSHA regulations that require employees in positions involving work in confined spaces to meet certain medical criteria.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity. 

NOTE:


Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, AUGUST 16, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the weighted multiple-choice test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight: Multiple-Choice Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%   

The examination will consist entirely of a weighted multiple-choice test administered and proctored on-line. In the on-line multiple-choice test, the following competencies may be evaluated: Reading Comprehension, Mathematics, Attention to Detail, Follow Written Directions, Safety Focus, including: correct hand signals used to direct crane operators moving heavy materials or equipment as required by California Occupational Safety and Health Administration (Cal/OSHA); proper rigging procedures used to move pipes and/or other equipment; and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: various types of pipes, pipe fittings, and piping systems and the methods and procedures used to install, maintain, and repair them; hand and power tools and/or equipment used to install, maintain and repair piping systems; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Pipefitter.

The multiple-choice test will be proctored and administered on-line during a single session. Candidates invited to participate in the on-line multiple-choice test will be able to take the test from any location using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will receive an email from the City of Los Angeles outlining the dates and specific steps on how to take the multiple-choice test on-line. It is anticipated that the remote proctored multiple-choice test will be held in OCTOBER 2018. Candidates who do not complete and submit the remote proctored multiple-choice test on-line using a computer by the specified date and time will not be considered further in this examination. 
 
NOTES:	

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the multiple-choice test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
5. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
6. Based on City policy, before being hired in this position, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol screening test.
7. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7515 3433. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..02-28-14 07-18-14

	Class Code 3433 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08-03-18 	

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


