PLANNING ASSISTANT
																										  Class Code:       7939
																							  Open Date: 07-14-17
Revised: 07-26-17
 (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$61,659 to $90,181

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Planning Assistant does professional city planning work in long-range and policy planning, including citywide, community, and neighborhood planning; and project planning, including review, analysis, and clearance of land use proposals, development projects, and site plans. A Planning Assistant may have specialized expertise in historic preservation, environmental analysis, and/or zoning review and compliance.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. A Bachelor's or Master's degree from an accredited four-year college or university in urban planning, urban studies, urban design, architecture, landscape architecture, geography, public administration, political science, environmental science, social ecology, economics, transportation planning, or historic preservation; or 
2. Four years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Planning Aide.
 
PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who are within six months of graduation from an accredited college or university may apply. However, they cannot be appointed until the full education requirement is met.
2. Applicants qualifying under Requirement #1 must list their school name and location, type of degree earned and major in the Education Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to provide this information on their application will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
3. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
5. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree. 
6. Upon appointment, Planning Assistants may be required to furnish their own automobiles, properly insured, for use in City service. Mileage will be paid according to established rates.
7. In addition to the regular City application form, all applicants must complete the Planning Assistant Advisory Essay at the time of filing. The Planning Assistant Advisory Essay is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Advisory Essay will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed.

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010(b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training. Only persons possessing the following as of the close of the filing period may be certified in order of standing on the eligible list to fill such positions: 

1. One year of full-time paid experience in the field of zoning review and/or code enforcement.
2. One year of full-time paid experience in the field of environmental policy and/or environmental analysis. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) experience is highly preferred.
3. One year of full-time paid experience in the field of historic preservation, including the implementation and application of the Secretary of the Interior's Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties, as to proposals affecting historic buildings; or an academic degree with a major or concentration specifically focused on historic preservation or historic preservation planning.

NOTE:

Those individuals that desire to be considered for Selective Certification 1, 2, and 3, as described above, must respond to the Selective Certification Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Selective Certification Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Selective Certification Questionnaire will not be considered further in selective certification. 


WHERE TO APPLY 

Application, Advisory Essay response, and the Selective Certification Questionnaire will only be accepted on-line at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations from 8:00 a.m. TUESDAY, JULY 25, 2017 to 11:59 p.m. THURSDAY, JULY 27, 2017 and from 8:00 a.m. TUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 2017 to 11:59 p.m. THURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 2017. Applications submitted before the start of the filing period will not be accepted. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. 

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Application, Advisory Essay response, and the Selective Certification Questionnaire will only be accepted on-line on the following three days: from 8:00 a.m. TUESDAY, JULY 25, 2017, WEDNESDAY, JULY 26, 2017, and to 11:59 p.m. THURSDAY, JULY 27, 2017; and from 8:00 a.m. TUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 2017, WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 2, 2017, and to 11:59 p.m. THURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from July 14, 2017, in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

Additional details about the Los Angeles City Planning Department are available at http://cityplanning.lacity.org/PressRelease/ReshapingLA_Pamphlet.pdf.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
 	Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

Your examination score will be based entirely on your professional and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Reading Comprehension; Analytical Ability; Conscientiousness; Fact Finding; Customer Service; Oral Communication; and Written Communication.  As part of their evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will consider the information in the candidate's Advisory Essay. This essay material will not be scored separately, but will be presented to the interview board for evaluation of the candidate's writing skills and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate's qualifications.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/JobAnalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Planning Assistant.

The interviews will be administered on SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2017 and SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2017, in Los Angeles. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interviews. Subsequent interview dates will be determined if additional testing is needed.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. Names will be removed from the eligible list after one year unless the eligibility of candidates on the list is extended. 
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 

 Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7939. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07-14-17 REV 07-26-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


		

