PLUMBER

Class Code:      3443
Open Date: 11-30-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$94,445 (flat-rated)

The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $104,587 (flat-rated)

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Plumber does skilled work in the layout, installation, repair, and maintenance of sanitary and industrial plumbing systems, process piping, and fuel dispensing systems, including air, gas, water, industrial waste, gasoline, oil pipelines, and irrigation systems.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS 

1. Completion of a recognized five-year apprenticeship as a plumber; or
2. A valid journey-level plumber license issued by the City of Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety; or
3. Six years of full-time paid experience as a helper to a Plumber with the City of Los Angeles.

Completion of a plumbing program at an accredited institution may be substituted for each year of experience lacking up to a maximum of two years. Education information must be included in the Education Section of the application.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 must submit proof of completion of a recognized apprenticeship program indicated in Requirement #1. Applicants must attach a copy of the proof of completion to the on-line application at the time of filing. The requested document(s) must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the document(s) is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the documents and will not be considered further in this examination.
4. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 must submit the license number issued by the City to their application at the time of filing.
5. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 or Requirement #3 must possess a valid journeyman plumber's license issued by the City of Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety prior to appointment.
6. Applicants filing under Requirement #3 must submit a City of Los Angeles "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form with the required signatures, verifying their experience in the areas noted above. The VWE form may be obtained on-line at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf. Applicants may attach the completed VWE form to their on-line application at the time of filing, or will have seven (7) calendar days from the on-line submission date to e-mail a copy of their completed VWE form, including the required signatures to: per.appdocs@lacity.org. The subject line of your e-mail must include the exam title, your name and indicate it is a VWE. In the body of your e-mail, you must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number and contact phone number. Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed.

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require the following certificates. Only persons submitting a copy of the following certificates by the close of the filing period may be considered for appointment to fill such positions.

1. A valid Environmental Protection Agency approved Technician Certificate, in accordance with Section 608 of the Clean Air Act, may be required for some positions prior to appointment.
2. A valid state certified Crane Operator Certification, may be required upon completion of probation.
3. A valid Certificate for Backflow Prevention Device Tester issued by the Los Angeles County Health Department, this certificate may be required for some positions prior to appointment.
4. A valid Chief's Regulation 4 Tester Certification for Class I, II, III, and/or Auto Sprinklers issued by the Los Angeles Fire Department, may be required for some positions prior to appointment.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed below:

From 8:00 a.m. Friday, November 30, 2018 to 11:59 p.m., Thursday, December 13, 2018
From 8:00 a.m. Friday, August 2, 2019 to 11:59 p.m., Thursday, August 15, 2019

The examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. Filing periods may change without prior notice or additional dates may be added, as needed, at a later date. For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen on the dates noted in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin. 

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the multiple-choice test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates. 

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Multiple-Choice Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of a weighted multiple-choice test administered and proctored on-line. In the on-line multiple-choice test, the following competencies may be evaluated: Reading Comprehension; Mathematics; Judgment and Decision Making; Safety Focus; Interpersonal Skills; and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: the functions and use of hand tools, power tools, equipment and machines commonly used in plumbing; proper methods and techniques of installing different types of pipes and fittings, and their appropriate use; various plumbing systems used to diagnose and correct plumbing issues; commonly used plumbing terminology; the factors and information necessary to read and interpret gauges, recorders, and other plumbing test equipment, and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

The multiple-choice test will be proctored and administered on-line during a single session. Candidates invited to participate in the on-line multiple-choice test will be able to take the test from a remote location using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the dates and specific steps on how to take the multiple-choice test on-line. It is anticipated that the remote proctored multiple-choice test will be administered between TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2019 and TUESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2019. Candidates who do not complete and submit the multiple-choice test on-line using a computer by the specified date and time will not be considered further in this examination.

Additional job analysis information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Plumber. FAQs for on-line testing is available at http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess. Candidates who do not have the required equipment may have the option to take the multiple-choice test onsite at a City facility.

NOTES: 

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. The incumbents of some positions in this class may be required to pass an annual or periodic work fitness evaluation to determine their eligibility for continued employment in this class.
5. Based on City policy, before being hired in this position, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol-screening test.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
7. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive higher scores, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
8. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list. 
9. You may take the Plumber multiple-choice test only once every 365 days. 
10. Your rank on the employment list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of the examination are merged onto one list.
11. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3443 CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11-30-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

