POLICE ADMINISTRATOR

Class Code:       9196
	Open Date:  10-06-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$119,767 to $175,120; $137,181 to $200,531; $156,224 to $228,385

NOTES:  

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range.  The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to the lowest pay grade.

 DUTIES

A Police Administrator plans, organizes and directs the work of employees engaged in the activities and operations of a large functionally diverse support or technical bureau, group, or division of the Los Angeles Police Department and does related work; regularly advises top management of the Department regarding strategies and policy matters; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; and performs related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid managerial experience with the City of Los Angeles Police Department in a position at the level of Senior Management Analyst II supervising, planning, coordinating and directing staff in the daily operation of:
a. an administrative, financial, or support function; or
b. an information systems or communications function involving systems analysis, design and development, and installation of multi-purpose computer-based information systems; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience in a position at the level of a Sr. Management Analyst II supervising, planning, coordinating and directing staff performing any of the following functions related to public safety: administrative analysis, financial analysis, human resources, information systems, communications or other support functions.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement has been met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. A four-year college degree is desired, but not required.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2017.

Applications that clearly do not meet the stated requirements will not be accepted.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Assessment of Training and Experience . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of a Training and Experience Questionnaire in which the following competencies may be evaluated: Leadership, Judgment and Decision Making, Innovative, Strategic Planning, Self-Management, Results Orientation, Interpersonal Skills and Written Communication Skills.  Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=JobAnalyses and clicking on Competencies under Police Administrator.

The Training and Experience Questionnaire for all candidates will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation.  The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications as described on the Training and Experience Questionnaire. The score assigned will represent 100% of the examination weight for this exam.  

The Training and Experience Questionnaire will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2017, in Los Angeles. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the test.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. Promotional candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those classes which provide qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of 1.00 point will be added to the scores of those candidates.
6. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. Appointment to this class is subject to a one-year probationary period under provisions of Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  



Class Code 9196 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-06-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 



