POLICE LIEUTENANT
  Class Code: 2232                                                                            
 Open Date: 02-09-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$125,572 to $139,916 and $132,546 to $147,663

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.


DUTIES

A Police Lieutenant plans, organizes, and directs the work of sworn and civilian employees engaged in the operation of an assigned watch or a 24-hour team in a police division or an investigational unit or detail; commands a specialized division or section; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective workforce; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities and does related work. 
 
REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years as a Police Sergeant, Police Detective II, or Police Detective III in the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) by October 7, 2018, one year of which must have been in a supervisory capacity; and
2. Completion of 90 semester or 135 quarter units from an accredited college or university. 

Under the policy of rounding off experience to the nearest full month, continuous service beginning on or before October 21, 2016 meets the two-year experience requirement.  Candidates must meet the experience requirement prior to appointment to Police Lieutenant.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who have completed a minimum of 60 semester or 90 quarter units may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until they have completed the 90 semester or 135 quarter units as indicated in Requirement #2. Education will be verified by the LAPD Personnel Division's Position Control Section, located at 100 West First Street, Rm. 228, (213) 486-4690. Official copies or Original Transcripts will be required prior to appointment.  Do not submit transcripts to the Personnel Department.
2. In addition to the regular City application, applicants must submit a "Police Lieutenant Verification of Work Experience form" (VWE) with the required signatures.  The form can be obtained at http:per.lacity.org/exams/2232sup.pdf.  Applicants may attach their completed VWE form to their online application at the time of filing, or will have seven (7) calendar days from the online submission date to email a copy of their completed VWE form to per.appdocs@lacity.org. The subject line of your email must include the exam title, your name and indicate it is a VWE.  In the body of your email, you must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number and contact phone number.  Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.  
3. Applicants must list their school name and location, dates attended, and number of semester or quarter units completed in the Education Section of the application.  Applicants who fail to provide this information on their application will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
4. Supervisory capacity is defined as having full-time responsibility over other personnel in the performance of their duties, assigning work to and reviewing the work of subordinates, and completing personnel rating reports.  Functional responsibility for personnel at crime scenes does not meet the definition of supervisory experience. 
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications WILL ONLY BE ACCEPTED ON-LINE. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

Only police experience shall be shown in the employment history part of the application and shall include the date of original appointment as a Police Officer, date of each promotion, and date of each transfer to another bureau or type of assignment that lasted three months or longer.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2018.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:   Written Test. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying
 Advisory Essay   . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying 
                                         Interview (including City Application, Advisory Essay, and Personnel Folder)   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will include a qualifying written test which will consist of multiple-choice questions, an advisory essay and an interview.  Candidates must receive a passing score on the qualifying written test and complete the advisory essay to continue in the examination.  The written test and advisory essay sessions will be held in Los Angeles on SATURDAY, APRIL 7, 2018.  Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the exact date, time, and location of their interview; however, interviews are expected to be held during the months of May and June 2018.  

In the qualifying written test, candidates may be examined for knowledge of the following competencies: Leadership, Community Relations, Initiative, Resolves Conflict, Judgment and Decision Making, and Job Knowledge which may include: principles and practices in supervision and community policing; LAPD policies, procedures, and philosophy as contained in the Department Manual, specialized manuals, and other documents of the LAPD relating to LAPD organization and structure, field operations, emergency and specialized unit operations, police tactics, use of force, pursuits, the arrest, detention, and disposition of prisoners and property, training programs, employee performance evaluation and discipline, employee safety, recording and reporting requirements, and the interrelationships between the LAPD and other City departments and the legal system; Constitutional law, case law, and court decisions; investigative board findings affecting the LAPD;  the Police Officer's Bill of Rights; City government, federal, state, and local laws, rules, and regulations relating to personnel management; the Memoranda of Understanding for subordinate personnel; analytical ability used in calculating crime trends; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

The multiple-choice questions, with the possible exception of questions intended to test analytical ability in which all pertinent information is provided, will be from sources listed on the published bibliography. The bibliography will be available on-line at http://per.lacity.org/exams/2232bib.pdf. Additionally, all Los Angeles Police Department employees may contact LAPD's Career Development Unit, via e-mail at career_development@lapd.online for information regarding study materials.  Written test booklets will no longer be provided to candidates at the conclusion of the written test.  Additionally, protests on individual test items will no longer be accepted or reviewed.  However, the final test key will be established following a review of the test by a panel of subject matter experts. 

In the advisory essay session, candidates will be required to complete a written response on a subject related to the duties of a Police Lieutenant aligned with the following competencies: Written Communication, Judgment and Decision Making, Initiative,  Resolves Conflict, Leadership, Community Relations and Job Knowledge which may include knowledge of and ability to apply:  LAPD policies and procedures related to supervision of subordinates, community policing, field operations, training programs, and police tactics; LAPD organization and structure; investigative board findings affecting the LAPD; criminal, Constitutional, and case law; problem-solving, and analytical skills; the ability to communicate effectively in writing; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities. The essay responses will not be scored separately, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate, and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate.

In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the candidate's experience and quality of performance as they have prepared the candidate to perform the duties of a Police Lieutenant.  In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Oral Communication, Leadership, Written Communication, Judgment and Decision Making, Initiative,  Community Relations, Resolves Conflict, and Job Knowledge which may include knowledge of and ability to apply LAPD policies, procedures, and philosophy; ability to apply management principles; analytical and problem-solving abilities; planning and organizational skills, interpersonal skills; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.   The interview panel may consist of members of the LAPD, the community, and/or outside agencies.  LAPD personnel folders will be used. Candidates are encouraged to review their personnel folder well in advance of their interview. Personnel folders will not be available for updating once received at the Personnel Department.

CERTIFICATION

Candidates on the eligible list, which results from this examination and who become subject to a Board of Inquiry or disciplinary action during the life of this list may be withheld from certification or removed from the eligible list in accordance with Personnel Department Policy and/or applicable bargaining agreement provisions.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the disability Accommodation Form within 14 days of the submittal of the City Application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. This examination is based on a content validation study and, as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
4. Seniority credit at a rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of service as a Police Sergeant, Police Detective II, or Police Detective III in the Los Angeles Police Department prior to January 1, 2019, will be added to the final examination score of each candidate. No Seniority credit will be given for time served as a Police Detective I.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON A DEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 2232 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 02-09-18
AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

