POLICE SPECIAL INVESTIGATOR

Class Code:        1640
Open Date:   07-20-18
Revised: 01-10-19
 (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$90,473 to $132,274

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Police Special Investigator reviews, conducts, and/or participates in investigations into matters which potentially involve criminal violations or violations of policies of the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) by LAPD employees; reviews and/or conducts personnel-related investigations including Use of Force investigations and In-Custody Death investigations; allegations of employee misconduct; and complaints from civilians and employees; plans investigative strategies and approaches; interviews complainants, witnesses, informants, suspects, City employees, and outside law enforcement officials; prepares oral and written reports relating to a wide variety of law enforcement practices and procedures; analyzes documentary materials including complex police investigations and supporting documentation; acts as liaison for department staff, outside agencies, and citizens making appropriate referrals; and does related work. 

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS 

1. Five years of full-time paid experience conducting investigations (including obtaining witness testimony and documentary evidence) in the following areas: criminal or internal affairs; or compliance with laws or regulations, such as in academia, a corporate setting, or regulatory agencies; or on behalf of a law firm in support of litigation; or
2. A graduate degree from an accredited college or university in criminal justice, public policy, public administration or a closely related field, and two years of full-time paid related professional experience in a government agency; or 
3. Graduation from an American Bar Association accredited law school and one year of full-time paid experience in the area of community law or government law, or in another related field of law. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application supplemental questions, each applicant is required to complete the Police Special Investigator Training and Experience Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Police Special Investigator Training and Experience Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Training and Experience Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed. 
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at https://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
6. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and Training and Experience Questionnaires WILL ONLY BE ACCEPTED ON-LINE. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be completed at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

City applications and Police Special Investigator Training and Experience Questionnaires (T&E) WILL ONLY BE ACCEPTED ON-LINE during the dates listed below:

From 8:00 am FRIDAY, JULY 20, 2018 to 11:59 pm THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 2018
From 8:00 am FRIDAY, JULY 19, 2019 to 11:59 pm THURSDAY, AUGUST 1, 2019

SELECTION PROCESS 

Examination Weight:  Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of an evaluation of training and experience, wherein candidates will be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background and personal qualifications and abilities. Candidates may be examined for the following competencies: reading comprehension; analytical ability; attention to detail; objectivity; fact finding; written communication; project management; job knowledge, including knowledge of: investigative and interviewing techniques; applicable local, state, and federal laws, rules, and regulations; constitutional and statutory provisions; rules of evidence and court procedures; techniques of identifying, collecting, preserving, and presenting evidence; confidentiality laws and issues; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities. 

Training and Experience Questionnaires and City employment applications for all candidates meeting the minimum requirements will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the candidate's City application and Training and Experience Questionnaire.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. You  may take this examination only once every 365 days during the administration of this examination.  Your name may be removed from the eligible list after six months.  If you have taken the Police Special Investigator examination within the last 12 months, you may not file for this examination at this time.
4. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
6. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidate's employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that minimum requirements are met.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position. All City employees are required to be Disaster Service Workers.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 1640 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07-20-18 REV 01-10-19

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

