                                                                                                                               


POLICE SURVEILLANCE SPECIALIST

																										         Class Code:       3687
Open Date: 05-22-15
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$92,524 and $106,320 (flat rated)
Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions. 

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Police Surveillance Specialist performs skilled work in the installation, operation, maintenance, design, fabrication, testing, and inspection of electronic surveillance and countermeasure equipment utilized in the investigation of criminal activity; supervises one or more groups of employees engaged in the above work; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience in installing, operating, maintaining, fabricating, testing, and inspecting electronic surveillance equipment used in the investigation of criminal activity; or 
2. Four years of full-time paid experience in the construction, installation, maintenance or repair of any of a wide variety of electronics and communications equipment including television, high fidelity sound systems, radio, radar, microwave, telephone, telephone carrier, control, monitoring, public address, or audio/digital transmission equipment; or
3. Two years of full-time paid experience in the construction, installation, maintenance or repair of any of a wide variety of electronic communications equipment and
a. Successful completion of a two-year program in electronics at an accredited college or trade school; or
b. Successful completion of a military electronics technician course of 24 weeks or longer.

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met. 
2. In addition to the online City Application, each applicant is required to complete and submit an online Police Surveillance Specialist Training and Experience Questionnaire for Police Surveillance Specialist at the time of filing. The Police Surveillance Specialist Training and Experience Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City Application. Applicants who fail to complete the Training and Experience Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
3. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency.  A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
5. All incumbents of this class must obtain a valid Radiograph or Radiotelephone General Class Operator's License issued by the Federal Communications Commission within six months of the appointment.
6. All incumbents in this class must become a member, and maintain membership in good standing, of the National Technical Investigators Association (NATIA) within six months of appointment. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted online. When you are viewing the online job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. Online job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Filing may be closed without prior notice after a sufficient number of applications and Training and Experience Questionnaires have been received. For administrative purposes, filing may close periodically and reopen the following day.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Assessment of Training and Experience . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%
	
The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of training and experience wherein candidates may be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, and professional background as they have provided the skills, knowledge, and abilities necessary to perform the duties of a Police Surveillance Specialist. Candidates may be examined for knowledge of: principles of electricity and electronic theory; servicing and repairing audio/digital transmission systems and equipment; test equipment, tools, and materials; safety hazards, precautions, practices, and principles; computer hardware and software; and the ability to: define problems, assess surveillance situations and develop a plan of action; read and understand legal, fiscal, and technical documents; write clear and concise narrative reports; communicate orally; handle difficult interpersonal situations; work effectively with others; prioritize work; work independently and complete reports with general instructions; keep accurate and complete records; ensure grammatical and mathematical accuracy in written work; use electronic equipment, tools, and materials; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

The candidate's responses to the Police Surveillance Specialist Training and Experience Questionnaire and job application information will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the review panel.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodation to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. Because this class has been designated as safety sensitive in accordance with City policy, a drug and alcohol-screening test may be required prior to appointment.
4. Candidates must pass a background investigation prior to appointment that includes a review of their employment history, criminal conviction record, habitual use of intoxicants and drugs, and any other factors that may affect the candidate's suitability for employment as a Police Surveillance Specialist.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list. 
6. You may take this examination only once every 365 days. Your name may be removed from the eligible list after six months. 

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.				

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code No. 3687CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .05-22-15


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

