PORT PILOT		
						                 Class Code:           5151
Open Date:      08-18-17
          Revised:       09-07-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$173,554 to $193,432 and $204,269 to $227,675
Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Port Pilot navigates oceangoing vessels entering or leaving Los Angeles Harbor and operates communications and navigational equipment.

NOTE:	

All entry level Paygrade I positions are temporary training positions.  Employment in such positions is limited to two years during which time incumbents must qualify for advancement to the Port Pilot II level.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Three years of recent (See Notes #1 & #2 below) full-time paid experience as a United States Coast Guard licensed Master, Staff Captain, or Chief Mate of an inspected vessel, of not less than 5,000 gross tons, upon oceans while holding at minimum, a current, valid United States Coast Guard Merchant Mariner Credential in the Capacity and Limitations (If any): Master of Self-Propelled Vessels not Including Auxiliary Sail of Unlimited Tonnage Upon Oceans; or
2. Three years of recent (See Note #1 & #2 below) full-time paid experience as an operator of a ship-assist tugboat within the confines of San Pedro Bay and its tributaries, while holding at minimum, a current, valid United States Coast Guard Merchant Mariner Credential in the Capacity and Limitations (If any):  Master of Self-Propelled Vessels not Including Auxiliary Sail of Less than 1600 Gross Registered Tons (GRT) and Master of Towing Vessels; or
3. Three years of recent (See Note #2 & #3 below) full-time paid experience as a fully-trained port pilot whose duties include docking and undocking of oceangoing or coastwise vessels in a major port of the United States while holding at minimum, a current, valid United States Coast Guard Merchant Mariner Credential in the Capacity and Limitations (If any): Master of Self-Propelled Vessels not Including Auxiliary Sail of Unlimited Tonnage Upon Oceans or Master of Self-Propelled Vessels not Including Auxiliary Sail of Less than 1600 Gross Registered Tons (GRT) and Master of Towing Vessels.


PROCESS NOTES


1. For Requirements #1 and #3, a year is 360 eight-hour days; for Requirement #2 a year is 240 twelve-hour days (as defined in United States Coast Guard Title 46 Code of Federal Regulations 10.107) 
2. Recent qualifying experience is defined as at least two years of full-time paid experience within five years immediately preceding the bulletin open date.
3. Prior to appointment, applicants filing under Requirement #3 shall provide a letter from their State Board of Pilot Commissioners or the President of their Pilot Association attesting to their hire date as a trainee, the date they completed training, the date they started piloting vessels as a fully trained and Qualified Pilot, the dates of any extended lapses in service, and their most recent date performing ship moves. 
4. Applicants who lack six months (180 eight-hour days for Requirements #1 or 120 twelve hour-days for Requirement #2) or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
5. A major port is defined as one where pilotage and a valid first-class pilot's license is required according to State (46 USC Sec. 8501) and/or Federal (46 CFR 15.812) law.
6. Applicants must attach a copy of their United States Coast Guard Merchant Mariner Credentials to the on-line application at the time of filing. The Credentials must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted.  If the Credentials are attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the Credentials. Applicants who fail to submit the United States Coast Guard Merchant Mariner Credentials at the time of filing by attaching it to the on-line application will not be considered further in this examination.
7. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 or #2 must list the name of the vessel, the official number of vessel, capacity or gross tons of the vessel, and the number of days of shipment or worked on the application form in the Work Experience Section.  Applicants who fail to include this information on the application may not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed.
1. 
8. All candidates will be required to present proof of their United States Coast Guard Endorsed Capacity and Limitations Applying (If Any) as a First Class Pilot of Vessels of any Gross Tons upon the Waters of Los Angeles-Long Beach Harbors including San Pedro Bay and its approaches limitations on vessels of less than 40,000 gross tons accepted prior to appointment. 
1. 
9. All candidates will be required to present proof of their United States Coast Guard Endorsed Capacity and Limitations Applying (If any) as a radar observer (unlimited) prior to appointment.
10. A valid California driver's license and a good driving record are required prior to appointment.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violations (such as DUI).
11. Employees in the class must possess and maintain the physical stamina and agility to be able to board onto and disembark from ships at sea by climbing a Jacob's ladder in all manner of weather and sea conditions.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity   for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received.  Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from August 18, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an interview.  In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated:  Judgment and Decision Making; Safety Focus; Composure; Job Interest; Teamwork; and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: local conditions and features of the San Pedro Bay and area inside harbor, including channel depths, tides, tidal currents, and location of possible hazards; laws and regulations of the Harbor Department and State and Federal Agencies governing the operation and piloting of vessels at the Port of Los Angeles and Port of Long Beach, such as port tariff, speed limit in Harbor, air pollution laws, and radio communications; navigation principles necessary to pilot a vessel in to or out of the San Pedro Bay; emergency maneuvers sufficient to pilot during emergencies; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Port Pilot.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interviews, which will be held in Los Angeles. Candidates that are scheduled for an interview may request to complete the interview on an electronic device (i.e., computer, mobile device, tablet, etc.) using the video messaging program Skype.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of OCTOBER 16, 2017 to OCTOBER 27, 2017.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lactiy.org/exams/verity_disability.pdf.
5. Prior to appointment, all candidates will be required to pass a medical examination which will include an electrocardiograph; must meet high standards of vision and hearing; and must satisfactorily pass basic orthopedic tests.
6. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
7. After employment, Port Pilots will be subject to an annual physical examination as a requirement for retention in employment.
8. Port Pilots will be required to undergo pre-employment and post-employment drug testing in accordance with U.S. Coast Guard regulations.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 5151 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08-18-17 REV 09-07-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


