POWER ENGINEERING MANAGER

Class Code:       9453
Open Date:  04-28-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$145,638 to $180,966; $153,760 to $191,052; $186,667 to $231,914; $197,065 to $244,838; $208,048 to $258,494; $219,636 to $272,859

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 

DUTIES

A Power Engineering Manager may serve as the manager or assistant manager of a division, major section, or major project of the Power System of the Department of Water and Power (LADWP); may act as an advisor to the General Manager or to an Assistant General Manager; performs difficult and responsible professional engineering and administrative work in managing the planning and the preparation of plans, design specifications, contracts, budgets, legislative reports and procedures for the various components of the energy resource generation, transmission, distribution, construction, maintenance, and operation activities of the LADWP; applies sound supervisory and management principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective workforce; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience with the Department of Water and Power as an Electrical Engineer, or in a class which is at that level, supervising the planning, design, construction, operation, and/or maintenance of generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity to the City of Los Angeles; and
2. Registration as a Professional Engineer with the State of California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. For requirement No. 2, applicants must list their Professional Engineer license number and the expiration date in the Supplemental Questions section of the application.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 


NOTE: 

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be submitted on-line by THURSDAY, MAY 11, 2017.


SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Essay. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
									     Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and background as they demonstrate the knowledge of: engineering principles and practices as they apply to the planning, design, construction, operation, maintenance, testing, and research activities of a large utility; pertinent City Charter provisions and Department of Water and Power policies, rules, and procedures affecting Power System operations; organization and functions of the Power System; Power industry trends and strategies; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity and Memoranda of Understanding as they apply to subordinate personnel; safety principles, practices, policies, procedures, and regulatory requirements; administrative and organizational principles and practices, including planning, directing, controlling and budgeting; and the ability to develop customer-facing programs; direct, review and coordinate the work of a group of engineers and other personnel engaged in energy resource generation, transmission, distribution, construction, maintenance and operation activities; develop budgets and implement cost and job progress control systems for divisions, sections, or projects; manage and oversee the engineering investigations, design, purchasing, and construction of large and/or important projects, project management, or operating activities of the Power System; evaluate alternative proposals for technical soundness, economic feasibility, and long term strategic planning; implement Citywide and Departmental goals and objectives; motivate and influence others at a variety of levels; exercise sound leadership, administrative and technical judgment, originality and initiative in recommending new or revised methods, procedures, programs, and creative solutions to difficult or sensitive problems; negotiate, communicate, and deal tactfully and effectively with contractors, the general public, neighborhood groups, environmental organizations, consulting engineers,  representatives and executives of the Department, utilities, and other governmental units, in order to reach mutual agreement and understanding; prepare and review technical and administrative reports; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

At the time of the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Power Engineering Manager. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory essay may be disqualified. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their advisory essay responses.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JULY 17, 2017 through JULY 28, 2017.

NOTES:

1. Candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those City classes which provide qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of the candidates.
2. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis. 
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 9453 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04-28-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

