PRINCIPAL LIBRARIAN

Class Code:       6155
Open Date:  03-24-17
REVISED: 04-04-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$83,938 to $119,413 and $100,203 to $142,569

NOTE:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list normally are appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Principal Librarian plans, organizes, directs, and supervises the work of library personnel at regional and neighborhood branch libraries, a Central Library department, or system-wide level, including Engagement and Learning, Emerging Technologies and Collections, or in a specialized library administrative function; ensures strategic goals and objectives are accomplished; represents and advocates for the library at community events and among diverse constituencies; may represent the Library Department and speak before elected officials, potential donors, and other public and private organizations; may interact with community based organizations and support groups, other city departments, vendors and contractors; plans, implements and reviews budgetary expenditures; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid professional experience as a Senior Librarian with the City of Los Angeles; or
2. A master's degree in Library Science or Library and Information Science from a school accredited by the American Library Association and two years of full-time paid professional librarian experience at the level of Senior Librarian with the City of Los Angeles, directly supervising a group of professional library employees providing public service, technical services, or a staff specializing in adult, young adult, or children's library work.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Principal Librarian Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Principal Librarian Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. In Requirement #2, the term "professional librarian experience" applies to positions that require possession of a master's degree in Library Science or Library and Information Science from a school accredited by the American Library Association in order to obtain that position.  Therefore, to be considered "professional", qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining such a degree.
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by the American Library Association. A list of approved institutions can be found at http://www.ala.org/accreditedprograms/directory/alphalist.  
6. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.
7. Every candidate that is scheduled for a civil service interview will be required to complete their interview on an electronic device (i.e., computer, mobile device, tablet, etc.) using the video messaging program Skype. In order to use Skype you must have the following program and equipment prior to your scheduled interview date and time: an up-to-date electronic device that meets the minimum system requirements to run Skype, the latest version of Skype downloaded on your device (please go to http://www.skype.com/en/ and click the download Skype icon), internet connection (a high-speed broadband connection is recommended), a built-in or external webcam (high-quality or HD webcam is recommended), and a microphone and speakers (built-in or external). Please visit https://support.skype.com/en/faq/FA10328/what-are-the-system-requirements-for-skype in order to view the system requirements for running Skype on different operating systems. You may also visit https://support.skype.com/en/faq/FA597/what-do-i-need-to-make-a-video-call for more details on what you will need in order to make a video call, for information about call and video quality, and to determine if your computer meets the hardware requirements. If you need any additional help using Skype please visit https://support.skype.com/en/. On the support webpage some helpful links can be found under the headings: Video calling and Skype for devices. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL20, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from March 24, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Principal Librarian may be evaluated based on the candidate's responses to the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Principal Librarian based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the candidate's experience and training as it relates to the knowledge of: local and national trends and issues such as new technology and best practices in library services in order to recommend new and improved library services; the variety of published materials and formats appropriate to reference and circulating public library collections such as books, periodicals, microforms, audio-visual and digital services; the ability to: analyze and evaluate information from a wide variety of sources in order to make decisions regarding matters affecting the agency or department and to establish agency goals and service standards; read, analyze and comprehend complicated and detailed reports and information from a variety of sources; analyze statistical reports on circulation, registration, and reference usage to discern trends from the data and set departmental goals; supervise first and second-level supervisors in order to evaluate their performance and advise them on how to manage their staff; lead a team in planning, execution, and evaluation of projects and initiatives to enhance library services; communicate on a one-to-one basis and one-to-group basis within the context of personal conferences, committee meetings, and formal presentations; chair a meeting; write sufficiently using principles of proper English usage, punctuation, spelling, and grammar in order to prepare complicated and detailed reports and various communications and responses in the form of letters, emails and memoranda; develop a good rapport with subordinate staff, peers, and administration in order to freely exchange information and opinions about what is needed on the job; deal tactfully and effectively with individuals and organizations such as library patrons, friends of the library and support groups, businesses, community and service organizations, governmental agencies, and other libraries in order to resolve any complaints and offer information or advice; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

Additionally, the interview board will consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire in their overall evaluation of the candidates' qualifications. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date and time of the interview. All candidates that are scheduled for an interview will be required to complete the interview on an electronic device (i.e., computer, mobile device, tablet, etc.) using the video messaging program Skype. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of MAY 29, 2017 to JUNE 9, 2017.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study. 
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. Appointees may be subject to weekend and evening work assignments.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
8. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 6155 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03-24-17 REV 04-04-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

