PRINCIPAL CITY PLANNER                                       
Class Code:  7946
                                                                                                       Open Date:  03-02-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$123,066 to $179,943

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 

DUTIES

A Principal City Planner plans, organizes, and directs the work of professional, technical, and clerical employees in a major division of the City Planning Department; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective workforce; fulfills equal employment responsibilities; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS


1. Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Senior City Planner or in a class which is at that level and provides experience in urban planning or zoning; or
2. Two years of full-time paid second-level supervisory experience responsible for directing professional personnel in an organization engaged in urban or regional planning, redevelopment, land use administration, or a closely related field.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license.  Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Applicants filing using City of Los Angeles experience in a City class other than Senior City Planner must submit a "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form with the required signatures, verifying their experience in urban planning or zoning. Applicants may attach their completed VWE form to their online application at the time of filing, or will have seven (7) calendar days from the online submission date to e-mail a copy of their completed VWE form to per.appdocs@lacity.org. The subject line of your e-mail must include the exam title, your name and indicate it is a VWE. In the body of your e-mail, you must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number and contact phone number. Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.
  
NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2018.




In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order the applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from March 2, 2018 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.                                 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:   Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
																	    Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Interpersonal Skills; Oral Communication; Leadership; Champions Change; Strategic Planning; Vision; and Job Knowledge including knowledge of: the principles of City planning and urban design; City planning theory regarding city form, land use, transportation utilities, and  housing in order to guide future City development and urban issues and problems; procedures and processing of General Plan elements, community plans, specific plans, code amendments, zone change and variances, environmental documents, conditional uses, and subdivisions at a level sufficient to supervise staff in carrying out these procedures; state, federal, and local laws; the purpose and goals of zoning as limiting factors in the development of plans and evaluation of projects; the functions, scope and authority of various public agencies whose actions may affect local planning matters; the reports, documents, procedures, laws, and statistical data related to a variety of planning matters; and mathematical models such as demographic or economic models necessary to interpret and evaluate for the development of urban plans; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Principal City Planner.

Prior to the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Principal City Planner. This material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidates. The Advisory Essay will be administered online. Candidates invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to complete the online Advisory Essay, and will be required to do so by the date provided in the instructions sent to them via e-mail. Candidates who fail to complete the online Advisory Essay may be disqualified. It is anticipated that the online Advisory Essay will be administered APRIL 16, 2018 to APRIL 23, 2018.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the time, date, and location of the interviews which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of APRIL 30, 2018 to MAY 11, 2018.

NOTES:		

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
3. Promotional candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in a class which provides qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of those candidates.
4. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit as indicated above, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
5. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
6. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
7. A final average score of 70% is needed in order to be placed on the eligible list.
8. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
9. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
10. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7946  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03-02-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 

