PRINCIPAL WORKERS' COMPENSATION ANALYST

Class Code:       1777
Open Date:  07-18-14
ANNUAL SALARY

$80,284 to $117,346
The salary for the Department of Water and Power is $105,297 to $130,813

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 

DUTIES

A Principal Workers' Compensation Analyst maintains responsibility for the administration of Workers' Compensation benefits in cases involving City employees; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT

Two years of full-time paid experience as a Senior Workers' Compensation Analyst with the City of Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Prior to appointment, all Principal Workers' Compensation Analyst candidates must possess a "Self-Insurance Administrator's Examination Certificate of Achievement" issued by the State of California (per California Code Regulations Section 15452).
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JULY 31, 2014.




SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of qualifications by interview. In the interview, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: City policies as they apply to workers' compensation benefits; Charter provisions (Section 1412 and 1414) governing the Pensions Department; the California State Labor Code, including sections related to self-insured administrators, WCAB procedures, safety, and relevant legal decisions; Senate Bill 863 and the Regulatory and Statutory impacts to managing workers' compensation provisions program; Appellate and Supreme Court decisions related to matters such as injuries or illnesses incurred to and from the place of employment, employers' rights to subrogation, and appointment as it applies to multiple injuries; the rules of Workers' Compensation Appeals Board; the application of appointment, including relevant case laws; Utilization Review process and the Independent Medical Review process as it relates to medical cost estimation; supervisory principles and practices including Equal Employment Opportunity; the ability to: apply principals of the Permanent Disability Rating Systems; apply knowledge and experience acquired from a variety of Workers' Compensation information sources; organize and develop a framework for informal case discussions with employees or other interested parties; make independent decisions based on consideration of various factors; research and analyze legislation and policies related to work compensation; read and understand complex technical material; write narrative reports and correspondence; present information during compensation case hearings, conferences, and negotiations; communicate orally with others; interact and deal tactfully and effectively with co-workers, supervisors, physicians, vendors, attorneys, industrially-injured employees, and other interested parties; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Note:

After all applications have been received and filing is closed, Personnel Department staff will determine the appropriate exam content to be tested. Candidates will be notified by mail of the exam content, date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin in SEPTEMBER 2014.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list. 
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1777. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07-18-14

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

