PRINCIPAL CLERK UTILITY

Class Code:          1202
Open Date:     10-05-18
Revised: 10-17-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$83,520 to $88,176; $87,341 to $92,206; $90,723 to $95,776; and $94,649 to $99,931

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions. 
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. For information regarding reciprocity between City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Principal Clerk Utility plans, organizes and directs the work of a large group of employees engaged in a wide variety of clerical work, or a smaller group engaged in difficult and complex administrative support work in the Department of Water and Power; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective workforce; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Senior Administrative Clerk or in a class at that level which provides experience in office clerical work; or
2. Three years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Customer Service Representative.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2018.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
           Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying written test and interview. In the qualifying written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, the following competencies may be evaluated: judgment and decision making, clerical accuracy, and job knowledge, including knowledge of the Department of Water and Power's organizational structure, functions of its divisions, and general administrative procedures and practices; pertinent City, Personnel Department and DWP rules, policies and procedures, including Volume I - Article VI of the City Charter pertaining to the powers of DWP, Civil Service Rules, DWP Working Rules, and Equal Employment Opportunity; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending, and evaluating the work of subordinate employees; procedures and City forms used to process personnel transactions, such as certifications, appointments, transfers, reversions, leaves of absence, layoffs, terminations, and restoration to the eligible lists; DWP selection procedures, including bidding process; DWP procedures, forms, and reports related to requisition, timekeeping, budgeting and purchasing; DWP accounting practices used for accounts payable and payroll, including the Responsibility Cost Accounting System; rules, regulations, and procedures regarding records retention, storage, and recall; uses and capabilities of common office equipment such as calculators, copy machines, scanners, fax machines, and personal computers; commonly used software programs and applications such as word processing and spreadsheets; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Principal Clerk Utility.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the multiple-choice test which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, DECEMBER 15, 2018, in Los Angeles.

Passing Score for Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

All candidates who achieve a passing score on the qualifying multiple-choice written test will be invited to participate in the interview.

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: judgment and decision making; self-management; supervision; oral communication; written communication; interpersonal skills; and job knowledge. Job knowledge areas may include knowledge of the Department of Water and Power's organizational structure, functions of its divisions, and general administrative procedures and practices; pertinent City, Personnel Department and DWP rules, policies and procedures, including Volume I - Article VI of the City Charter pertaining to the powers of DWP, Civil Service Rules, DWP Working Rules, and Equal Employment Opportunity; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending, and evaluating the work of subordinate employees; DWP selection procedures, including bidding process; DWP procedures, forms, and reports related to budgeting and purchasing; DWP accounting practices used for accounts payable and payroll, including the Responsibility Cost Accounting System; uses and capabilities of common office equipment such as calculators, copy machines, scanners, fax machines, and personal computers; commonly used software programs and applications such as word processing and spreadsheets; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by the Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous City service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate. 

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1202 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-05-18 REV 10-17-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

	                                  AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER	

