PRINCIPAL PUBLIC RELATIONS REPRESENTATIVE

Class Code:       1786
Open Date:  03-17-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$66,899 to $95,212
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $128,934 to $136,116 and $138,476 to $ 146,201.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Principal Public Relations Representative supervises a full, or key portion of a public relations program involving the preparation and dissemination of media, promotional, educational, or advertising information on municipal functions or activities; personally performs highly responsible public relations work and may act as spokesperson for a City department; and applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective workforce; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university including 24 semester or 36 quarter units in public relations, journalism, or mass communication and three years of full-time paid professional experience performing public relations work and preparing and disseminating information using the press, radio, television, films, personal appearances, or other methods of mass communication; or
2. Three years of full-time paid experience as a Public Relations Specialist with the City of Los Angeles.

Candidates may substitute experience as described above for the specific academic credit required in Requirement #1. Each year of professional paid experience in these fields may be substituted for completion of 12 semester units or 18 quarter units from the fields of study required.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement has been met. 
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 must list their school name and location, appropriate course titles, their respective number of semester or quarter units, and completion dates for each course claimed as qualifying in the text box which will appear in the Supplemental Questions section of the on-line application. Applicants with a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in public relations, journalism, or mass communication are not required to list individual courses but must include the title of the major, school name and location, and completion date.
3. For qualifying work experience in Requirement #1, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional", non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.


NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical difficulties you may encounter.



APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:	Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of your professional qualifications by interview. In the interview, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: principles, techniques, and methods suitable for the dissemination of information concerning a municipal agency, including routine and crisis situations; current and new (emerging) principles, practices, policies and trends of public relations, community relations, social media, and marketing communications program and project development, execution, and management; specialized public information techniques applicable to news and feature writing for press, radio, television, informational films, and other informational media;  English grammar, spelling, punctuation, and vocabulary, including the nuances and connotations of wording; effective problem solving techniques;  City personnel rules, policies, and procedures, including the laws and regulations related to Equal Employment Opportunity; effective event planning and management policies and procedures for special events, briefings, trade shows, conferences, promotions, and press conferences;  and the ability to: effectively exercise independent judgment and problem solving techniques in performing crisis communications management and non-routine public relations situations; plan, assign, direct, and review the work of one or a group of employees engaged in a public relations program which involves the preparation and dissemination of media, promotional, educational, or advertising information on municipal functions or activities; convincingly speak in public and before groups of individuals; effectively communicate and tactfully deal with the public, representatives of the media, government officials, employees, business and community groups, and academic and vocational audiences; handle high level administrative details and problems; maintain records; write effective, clear, interesting, and creative news releases, educational, and informational materials, reports, and radio, television, presentation scripts and social media posts and websites; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities. 

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of MAY 22, 2017 to JUNE 2, 2017.

NOTES:
		
1. An employee in this class may be subject to weekend and evening work assignments.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY 
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1786 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03-17-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

