PRINCIPAL ANIMAL KEEPER

Class Code:       4312
Open Date:  07-06-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$53,411 to $78,112

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Principal Animal Keeper plans, organizes, and directs the work of employees caring and maintaining exhibit facilities at the Los Angeles Zoo; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective workforce; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; and does related work.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

	One year of full-time paid experience as a Senior Animal Keeper or in a position at that level and which provides experience in caring for exotic mammals, birds, elephants, amphibians, and reptiles and the supervision of employees engaged in such care.

PROCESS NOTES
 
1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Principal Animal Keepers must be available to work weekends and holidays.
4. Principal Animal Keeper assignments may be rotated among various animal "strings" to meet the needs of the Zoo.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JULY 19, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.


SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%                                        

The examination will consist entirely of an interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Judgment and Decision Making, Self Management, Supervision, Oral Communication, Leadership, Safety Focus, including knowledge of: common hazards of working with zoo animals including the recognition of dangerous behavior in animals; exhibit maintenance assessment and enclosure management, such as recognition of failures in containment; and Industry Knowledge, including knowledge of: zoology as related to a specific taxon, including species identification, husbandry, and captive management; the health and wellbeing of animals including the conditions of animals which may indicate imminent birth, illness or conditions; the uses of cleaning compounds and chemicals and their proper application in order to maintain a clean and safe environment for animals; basic species compatibility sufficient to pair animals appropriately when scheduling special events, outreach programs, and animal shows; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Principal Animal Keeper.  

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of AUGUST 27, 2018 to SEPTEMBER 7, 2018.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
8. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applications are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum requirements are met.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

Class Code 4312. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07-06-18

