PROGRAMMER ANALYST
Class Code:         1431
Open Date:    09-22-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY	

$65,124 to $92,665; $69,467 to $98,845; $75,815 to $107,886; $81,995 to $116,698; and $88,364 to $125,718
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $79,406 to $98,658; $84,939 to $105,527; $92,916 to $115,445; $100,578 to $124,966; and $108,137 to $134,362

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf. 

DUTIES

A Programmer Analyst does technically difficult programming and application or software support; analyzes existing systems and procedures; determines the feasibility of data processing applications; designs and participates in the implementation of systems of computer programs; and may act as a lead analyst or project leader in supervising technical employees who are performing such work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. A bachelor's degree from an accredited four-year college or university with completion of 24 semester or 36 quarter units in information systems, computer engineering, or computer science and two years of full-time paid experience in the analysis, design, development, testing, and implementation of software applications; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience as an Applications Programmer with the City of Los Angeles.

Additional full-time paid programming analyst experience as described in Requirement #1 above may be substituted on a year for year basis for the required bachelor's degree. One academic year is equivalent to 30 semester or 45 quarter units.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met. 
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Experience working in one or more of the following areas is highly preferred:
a. Internet and/or Client/Server Applications utilizing programs such as .NET Framework (C# or VB.NET); ASP.Net; PeopleSoft; PeopleTools; ColdFusion; Java; Javascript; PowerBuilder; C/C++; UDB; PL SQL for Oracle; Transact SQL for SQL Server with Oracle or SQL Server as a backend; Component Object Model (COM); HTML 5; JQuery; AJAX; DB2 as a backend; and MYSQL as a backend;
b. Web services implementation, SOAP and different Remote Procedure Call technologies such as .NET Remoting, CORBA DCOM, JAVA RMI, and REST;
c. GIS Programming (Autodesk or ESRI);
d. Object-Oriented Design concepts and Object-Oriented Design patterns;
e. Web servers such as IIS and Apache;
f. Core Computer Programming concepts such as data structures and algorithm design;
g. Relational Database Design concepts such a normalization and entity-relationship diagramming;
h. Implementation of Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) packages such as AMS Advantage Financial, SAP, PeopleSoft Financials, or Oracle Financials;
i. Business Intelligence (BI) tools such as Cognos Crystal Reports, and Oracle OBIEE;
j. Integrated Development Environments (IDE) such as IBM's Rational Suite or Versata Design Studio;
k. Application Servers such as IBM's Websphere, Oracle, or TOMCAT;
l. Mobile application development technologies such as Apache Cordova and Dojo;
m. Content management system such as Oracle's Application Development Framework.
4. Applicants filing under Requirement No. 1 who did not receive a degree in information systems, computer engineering, or computer science must indicate the required course information, including the course title, the number of units (semester or quarter), date completed, and the name of the school in the Supplemental Questions section of the on-line application at the time of filing. Applicants who fail to do so will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.  General education courses and elective units taken outside of the specified major/areas need not be listed.  We recommend that you have your course work information with you before you go on-line to file your application.
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
6. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION



In accordance with Charter Section 1010(b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require certifications in one or more of the following areas.  Only persons possessing the following at the time of filing may be considered for appointment to fill such positions.

Selective Certifications 1 through 23 require Certificates of Completion. You must submit a Certificate of Completion for the following: 

1. Certification as a Microsoft Certified Applications Developer, Microsoft Certified Solutions Developer or Microsoft Certified Programmer.
2. Certification as an Oracle Application Developer.
3. Certification as a SAP Solution Consultant or SAP Development Consultant.
4. COBOL/CIS and COBOL using z/OS.DB2: IBM Professional, DB2 (for z/OS); Database Administrator; COBOL Application Programming; IBM Application Developer; CICS Transaction Server for z/OS, IBM System Programmer; CISC Transaction Server V5.2 for z/OS; IBM Certified Application Developer; or DB2 11 for z/OS.
5. Oracle Certified Professional, Java SE 8 Programmer; JAVA SE; JAVA EE; or Java EE Training & Certification
6. Power Builder
7. C/CC++
8. Microsoft MCSD App Builder; or Microsoft Visual Studio
9. Adobe ColdFusion 9
10. HTML 5 
11. Oracle Advanced PS/SQL; Developer Certified Professional; SQL and PL/SQL Certification Path
12. AJAX
13. Oracle People Tools; Application Developer; Certified Expert Certification; PeopleSoft Tools and Technology
14. SAP Certified Application Associate; Financial Accounting with SAP ERP 6.0 EHP5
15. IBM Deployment Professional FileNet; IBM Certified Specialist; IBM Enterprise Content Management; Filenet Content, Documentum; Laserfiche
16. Crystal Reports (SAP); Oracle Business Intelligence; IBM Certified Solution Expert; Cognos BI; or Oracle BI Enterprise Edition (BI EE)
17. jQuery
18. COBRA
19. Associate Android Developer; iOS Developer; or iOS Application Development
20. Oracle SOA Suite Certified; Implementation Specialist, Oracle AIA; or PIP
21. HP Technical Certified I - Exstream Software - Design and Production
22. Oracle Business Intelligence Foundation Suite Certified Implementation Specialist; or Oracle BI Publisher
23. Microsoft MCSA: SQL Server
        
Applicants must attach a copy of the certificate(s) to the on-line application at the time of filing. The certificate(s) must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate(s) is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the certificate(s). Applicants who fail to submit the certificate(s) at the time of filing by not attaching it to the on-line application will not be considered for this part of selective certification. 


WHERE TO APPLY


Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins also are available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.



APPLICATION DEADLINE



This examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. For administrative purposes, filing may close periodically and reopen periodically.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the weighted multiple-choice test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from the date of filing in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 



SELECTION PROCESS


After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Multiple-Choice Test  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  100%


The examination will consist entirely of a weighted multiple-choice test administered and proctored online. In the online multiple-choice test the following competencies may be evaluated:  Analytical Ability, Attention to Detail, Customer Service, Teamwork, Follow Written Directions, and Job Knowledge including knowledge of: database and programming languages such as C#, C++, HTML5, Java, Javascript, VB, Coldfusion, PHP, .NET, Pearl, mobile programming languages, SQL queries, stored procedures, triggers, views, and big data tools; the systems development life cycle (SDLC) and the required documentation; technical design and documentation such as data modeling, database, flowcharts and diagrams; database platforms and structures such as Oracle, SQL, DB2, big data infrastructures, relational, hierarchical, and object-oriented; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Programmer Analyst. 

The multiple-choice test will be proctored and administered on-line during a single session. Candidates invited to participate in the online multiple-choice test will be able to take the test from any location using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the dates and specific steps on how to take the multiple-choice test on-line. It is anticipated that candidates invited to participate in the first administration of the weighted multiple-choice test will be able to take the multiple-choice test online starting MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2017 THROUGH MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2017. Candidates who do not complete and submit the multiple-choice test on-line by MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2017 at 11:59 p.m., Pacific Standard Time, will not be considered further in this examination. Additional test dates may be added as needed.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the multiple-choice test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
7. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding .25 of a point seniority credit for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
8. You may take this examination only once every 365 days. Your name may be removed from the eligible list after six (6) months.
9. Your rank on the employment list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of this examination are merged onto one list.


Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1431 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .09-22-17

Class Code 1431 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .09-22-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 


