PROPERTY OFFICER
Class Code:       3207
Open Date:  07-14-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)


ANNUAL SALARY

$45,310 to $64,457 

NOTE:


The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.


DUTIES

A Property Officer is an unarmed civilian employee of the Police Department who accepts and maintains physical accountability and detailed documentation for booked evidence and non-evidence property from time of booking to ultimate release or disposal; utilizes both computer based and physical data tracking and filing systems; and provides customer service to police officers and the general public. 


REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

One year of full-time paid experience in warehouse or storekeeping work which includes experience in receiving, storing, issuing, and accounting for materials, supplies, parts, tools, or equipment.

PROCESS NOTES

1. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
2. Experience restocking retail merchandise or office supplies will not meet this requirement.
3. Property Officers must be available to work weekends, holidays, night and early shifts on a rotating basis. Property Officers are subject to work any assignment/location within the Property Division.
4. In bilingually authorized positions, a bilingual bonus of $25 per biweekly pay period is paid for fluent conversational ability in the necessary language. A bilingual bonus of $50 per biweekly pay period may be paid for the ability to write and interpret the language in addition to speaking it. A candidate must pass a proficiency examination in the language for which he/she is being certified prior to being hired in such a position. 
5.   In order to help you determine whether your background is suitable for the position of Property Officer, you MUST complete a Preliminary Background Application (PBA) online.  If any potential background issues are identified, you will be provided with feedback indicating the extent to which the issues may affect your candidacy.
6.   Prior to appointment, a thorough and comprehensive Background Investigation will be conducted by the Los Angeles Police Department.  The information provided in your PBA will be referenced during this investigation.  You must not have a history of criminal or improper conduct including any felony convictions.  You must not have a poor employment, military, or driving record, which would affect your suitability for this type of work.  You must have a responsible financial history.  You must have displayed a pattern of respect and honesty in your dealings with individuals and organizations.  You must be fingerprinted and have no disqualifying record of law violations or other improper conduct.  Potentially disqualifying violations or conduct includes convictions for more than one minor offense within the past year.
7.     Candidates may be required to undergo a DRUG and ALCOHOL screening test based on City policy.

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training in the following area.  Only candidates possessing the following as of the close of filing may be considered for appointment to fill such positions. Also, candidates must pass a proficiency examination in the language for which they are being certified prior to being hired in such positions.  

Some positions may require the ability to speak or write a language other than English.  

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure they have enough time to resolve any technical issues they may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

City applications and the PBA WILL ONLY BE ACCEPTED ON-LINE during the dates listed below:

From 8:00 a.m. Tuesday, July 25, 2017 to 11:59 p.m. Thursday, July, 27, 2017; 
From 8:00 a.m. Tuesday, January 9, 2018 to 11:59 p.m. Thursday, January, 11, 2018; 
From 8:00 a.m. Tuesday, July, 24, 2018 to 11:59 p.m. Thursday, July, 26, 2018

This examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received.  For administrative purposes, filing may close periodically and reopen the following day.
 
SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
				   Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%
					  
In the qualifying written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, candidates may be examined for the following competencies: Reading Comprehension, Mathematics, Attention to Detail, Customer Service, and Written Communication.  Immediately following the qualifying written test, candidates will be required to complete an essay-based Training and Experience Questionnaire (T&E) in which the following competencies may be evaluated: Safety Focus, Customer Service, Interpersonal Skills and Written Communications.  Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Property Officer.

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by the Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must pass the qualifying written test to have their essay-based Training and Experience Questionnaire evaluated. Training and Experience Questionnaires of these candidates will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the candidate's Training and Experience Questionnaire.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the Qualifying Written Test and completion of the Property Officer Training and Experience Questionnaire, both of which will be held in a single half-day session on SATURDAY,  SEPTEMBER 9, 2017; SATURDAY, MARCH 10, 2018, AND SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2018 in Los Angeles.  Those candidates selected for subsequent test administrations will be notified by e-mail of the exact date, time, and location of the test.  The above dates are tentative and subject to change depending on department need and additional test dates may be added as needed.

If you receive and accept a conditional job offer, appointment is subject to completing a MEDICAL EXAMINATION and PSYCHOLOGICAL EVALUATION.  Candidates must be determined to be medically and psychologically qualified to perform the essential duties of a Property Officer.  Candidates must undergo a comprehensive medical examination given by a City Physician and may undergo a psychological evaluation, conducted by a City psychologist, that consists of a written test and interview.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is   determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. The seniority credit included in the final general average grade of each candidate will be computed at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service with the City of Los Angeles.
6. A final average score of 70% on the Training and Experience Questionnaire is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit as indicated above, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
8. You may take this examination once a year (365 calendar days). Your name may be removed from the open competitive eligible list after 180 calendar days.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON
AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.


Class Code 3207 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07-14-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

