PROPERTY MANAGER
Class Code:       1964
Open Date:  09-09-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$95,088 to $135,282; $105,695 to $150,378; $114,464 to $162,864; and $127,243 to $181,071.
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $112,543 to $139,833; $122,649 to $152,382; and $147,913 to $183,764.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Property Manager plans and directs, or assists in planning and directing a comprehensive program of real property acquisition, sale, leasing, development (which may include pre-development and redevelopment), appraisal, and property management in a department.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience in a class at the level of Senior Real Estate Officer with the City of Los Angeles performing duties in the appraisal, acquisition, sale, development (which may include pre-development and/or redevelopment duties), or management of commercial, industrial or watershed property; or managing tenant relationships, leasing activities and property management/maintenance, or developing and oversight of concessions; or
2. Four years of full-time paid experience in a class at the level of Real Estate Officer with the City of Los Angeles performing duties in the appraisal, acquisition, sale, leasing, development (which may include pre-development and/or redevelopment duties), or management of commercial, industrial or watershed property; or managing tenant relationships, leasing activities and property management/maintenance, or developing and oversight of concessions; or
3. Five years of full-time paid experience performing duties in the appraisal, acquisition, sale, development (which may include pre-development and/or redevelopment duties), or management of commercial, industrial, or watershed property or managing tenant relationships, leasing activities and property management/maintenance, or developing and oversight of concessions. Two of the required five years of experience must be in a supervisory capacity managing a staff engaged in related activities.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Applicants seeking qualification under Requirement #3 must list their supervisory experience and dates separately on their application.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs  for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE: 

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the qualifying test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from September 9, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.
SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Qualifying 
                                      Interview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire and an Interview. In the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire candidates may be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background and personal qualifications, including knowledge of: short range and long range factors affecting the value of property for sale, rent, or lease or being considered for acquisition; techniques of negotiating terms of contracts; financial criteria for choosing tenants; mathematics sufficient to calculate such quantities as annual income, operating costs, areas, and percentages; principles of supervision; supervisory techniques as used to manage subordinates; and the ability to: communicate in writing to obtain and/or to provide specialized and general information; communicate in writing complex real property transactions or actions; write narrative reports and study findings in order to report findings, explain information, support or make recommendations and decisions; and other necessary knowledge, skills and abilities.

The qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire of all candidates will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications as described on the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire.  Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the expert review panel.

Passing Score for Qualifying Test

The passing score for the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying test is administered.  Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the qualifying test. The qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2016, in Los Angeles. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their responses to the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire in order to be invited to the interview.

The examination score will consist entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the evaluation of the nature and adequacy of the candidate's experience, training, and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of: terms and vocabulary related to property management; terms used in contracts to describe various relationships and obligations between landlords and tenants; terms describing various financial arrangements; indications of condition of structures and/or improvements to property; short range and long range factors affecting the value of property for sale, rent, or lease or being considered for acquisition; title documents and records, building and safety permits issues, and previous sale prices; types of contracts and/or special contract provisions commonly used for rental, lease, sale, or acquisition of property; techniques of negotiating terms of contracts; types of indemnity and insurance; environmental responsibilities; types of compensation; financial criteria for choosing tenants; financial records; safety principles and regulations such as OSHA and other regulatory safety requirements; principles of supervision; supervisory techniques as used to manage subordinates; and the ability to: assess baseline conditions, identify required maintenance and repair, differentiate wear and tear from maintenance and repair, and identify required capital movements; gather, analyze, and use data along with other management tools; identify factors which could expose the City to legal actions or claims; plan work assignments for property management staff and to assign priorities for various tasks and jobs; communicate orally to proficiently discuss complex real estate matters, obtain information, or to explain applicable laws, codes, regulations, and conditions of contracts; interact with others with clarity, perseverance, patience, and tact; communicate orally for the purpose of persuading others to adopt a specific opinion or course of action; make formal presentations and/or speak before groups; write material such as memos, instructions, and reports, explain procedures and methods of performing tasks, and to supervise personnel; communicate in writing complex real property transactions or actions; write narrative reports and study findings in order to report findings, explain information, support or make recommendations and decisions; and other knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview which will be held in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period under the provisions of Charter Section 1011.
3. Candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those City classes which provide qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of the candidate.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
5. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service in those classes which provide qualifying experience for this position, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
7. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
8. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
9. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1964 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09-09-16

Class Code 1964. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09-09-16


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORUNITY EMPLOYER


