PUBLIC SAFETY RISK MANAGER

Class Code:       7976
Open Date:  10-26-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$109,787 to $160,483

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Public Safety Risk Manager administers a comprehensive risk management program within the Los Angeles Fire Department (LAFD) which includes identifying potential risk exposures in all operations, evaluating the likelihood of these risks, and preparing and recommending policies or procedures to mitigate or eliminate such risks. Evaluates the effectiveness of the risk reduction measures within the context of the public safety and emergency response obligation of the LAFD.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Risk Manager with in the City of Los Angeles providing advice, general counsel or litigation services regarding risk management, risk threat assessment or risk evaluation for a public safety organization; or
2. a)  Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a degree in business, public administration, political science or related field; and b) Four years of full-time paid professional experience providing advice, general counsel or litigation services regarding risk management, risk assessment or risk evaluation for a public safety organization, with two of the four years supervising staff engaged in the administration of a risk management program. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 must list their school name, location, and type of degree earned in the Education Section of the on-line application at the time of filing. Applicants who fail to provide this information on their application will not be processed. 
4. Public safety organizations include emergency management agencies, law enforcement agencies, fire departments, rescue squads, and Emergency Medical Services (EMS). 
5. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the city of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from a recognized four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
6. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf
7. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree and coursework.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
							     Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and professional development as they have provided knowledge of: Federal, State, and City laws and regulations relating to public sector employee/management relations, workers' compensation and safety; principles, practices and terminology involved in risk management; the City Charter, Employee Relations Ordinance, FFBOR, and the Administrative Code; techniques for preparing and presenting the City's position in administrative hearings and litigation; the functions, organization, and procedures of the LAFD and other City departments; risk management and safety issues involving both sworn and civilian members of the LAFD; and the ability to: analyze employee relations and risk management problems and recommend practical solutions; analyze and project consequences of decisions and/or recommendations; work with staff consisting of administrative, professional, sworn, clerical and other organizational units and department staff members; manage competing priorities and work assignments; prepare clear, concise and comprehensive oral and written reports, and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

At the time of the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Public Safety Risk Manager. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory essay will be disqualified. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their advisory essay responses.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail regarding the date, time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of DECEMBER 17, 2018 to DECEMBER 21, 2018.

NOTES:

1. Appointment to this class is subject to a one-year probationary period under the provisions of Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
2. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that minimum requirements are met.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. Promotional Candidates will accrue seniority at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of continuous service in those classes which provide qualifying experience for this position. A maximum of one point will be added to the score of those candidates.
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credit, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit as indicated above, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
7. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
8. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list. 
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7976 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-26-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

