REAL ESTATE ASSOCIATE
Class Code:       1941
Open Date:  05-27-16
 (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees) 


ANNUAL SALARY

$46,687 to $68,298 and $55,164 to $80,638.
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $62,368 to $77,506 and $63,830 to $79,302.

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf. 
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Real Estate Associate performs the routine appraisals, leasing and property management independently, or assists technical employees engaged in the more difficult appraisals, acquisitions, leasing, sales, management, and title investigations of real property.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university and successful completion of at least:
	a)	six semester or eight quarter units of college level courses in real estate from an accredited college or university; or
	b)  	60 hours of course work from a recognized professional real estate/right-of-way association; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Real Estate Trainee for the City of Los Angeles and successful completion of at least:
a) 	six semester or eight quarter units of college level courses in real estate from an accredited college or university; or
b) 48 hours of course work from a recognized professional real estate/right-of-way association.

One year of full-time paid experience in performing right-of-way work; appraising the market value of real property; managing commercial or industrial real property; or negotiating on behalf of a large organization or governmental agency for the acquisition, sale, or lease of real property rights may be substituted for up to two years of college education (i.e., 30 semester/45 quarter units = 1 year of college education) lacking on a year-for-year basis, but may not be substituted for the required courses in real estate.

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Applicants must list the course titles, number of units, and completion dates for each required real estate-related course at the time of filing. Applicants who fail to provide the required information will not be considered further and their applications will not be processed.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
5. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree and coursework

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2016.



NOTE:

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from May 27, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:       Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying
		              Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying multiple-choice written test and an interview.  In the qualifying multiple-choice written test, candidates may be examined for the knowledge of: relocation processes and procedures; principles and methods of managing and appraising real property, including the negotiation for the acquisition and sale of surplus real property; use of engineering maps, plans, and profiles; legal descriptions or real property; uses and organization of records affecting land titles kept by public agencies and title companies; instruments, methods, and procedures of real property conveyances; real estate law; basic computer operations, including word processing, spreadsheet and database programs and mapping programs; and the ability to: read and interpret legal and engineering documents; conduct field investigations and surveys utilizing measuring tools; prioritize tasks and demonstrate job assignment progress; gather and analyze relevant data and present findings in writing in a clear and grammatically correct manner; deal tactfully and effectively with officials, property owners, employees, and the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the qualifying written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, AUGUST 6, 2016, in Los Angeles.

Passing Score for Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written may be set either above or below 70%. 

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying multiple-choice written test in order to be scheduled for the interview.

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's experience and background in providing the skills necessary to perform the duties of a Real Estate Associate, including knowledge of: low cost and subsidized housing; principles and methods of managing and appraising real property, including the negotiation for the acquisition and sale of surplus real property; uses and organization of records affecting land titles kept by public agencies and title companies; real estate laws; and the ability to: conduct field investigations and surveys utilizing measuring tools; prioritize tasks and demonstrate job assignment progress; communicate orally in a clear, concise, and understandable manner, sufficient to make effective oral presentations; deal tactfully and effectively with officials, property owners, employees, and the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.  

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates
5. In conjunction with Civil Service rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position. 

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  Applicants or employees who believe that they have been discriminated against are encouraged to contact the Office of Discrimination Complaint Resolution at (213) 473-9123.
Class Code 1941 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .05-27-16


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

