RECREATION SUPERVISOR

Class Code:       2460
Open Date:  10-14-16
REVISED: 10-27-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$63,266 to $92,498

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Recreation Supervisor plans, organizes and directs the work of subordinate personnel such as Senior Recreation Directors, Recreation Facility Directors, and Child Care Directors engaged in directing recreational activities within a geographical district; may plan, organize and direct a specialized Citywide recreational program; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

One year of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Senior Recreation Director or in a position at that level providing experience in supervising or directing recreational programs and activities. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Recreation Supervisor Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Recreation Supervisor Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
         
SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require the ability to speak or write a language other than English. Only persons who have the necessary language skills may be certified in order of standing on the eligible list to fill such positions. If you have the ability to speak or write a language other than English, indicate this language in the appropriate box on the application.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2016.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Essay. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
                                      Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the knowledge of:  the functional requirements of an organization that provides recreational activities, programs, and events for a diverse population sufficient to know what is appropriate for various cultures and economic areas of the City; City Charter provisions and Department of Recreation and Parks rules, policies, and procedures as related to providing recreation for the public; Board of Recreation and Parks Commission functions pertinent to the recreational activities that occur within the City; the organization and functions of the City government and the interrelationships of the Department with other City departments and governmental agencies; Federal, CAL/OSHA, City, and Department safety regulations as related to the operation of recreational and sports facilities;  City and Departmental policies, procedures, and practices pertaining to complaint handling, budget oversight, and administrative matters; problem solving and public relations techniques including diplomacy and confidentiality, sufficient to clear up or straighten out problems without jeopardizing departmental operations and public relations; principles and practices of supervision, including directing, assigning, motivating, counseling, commending, and evaluating the work of subordinates sufficient to determine training needs, provide training and discipline when necessary, and select appropriate personnel; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures including Equal Employment Opportunity and Memoranda of Understanding; Municipal Recreational Programs financial reporting rules and procedures sufficient to verify account balances; facility requirements and recreational activities sufficient to prepare requests for repairs; and the ability to: read and interpret complex written materials and review department recreational procedures, policies, and manuals in order to make pertinent decisions and recommendations for revisions and updates to recreational programs; gather and analyze data as required by assigned programs or projects; check transmittals and account balances in order to stay within an assigned budget and distribute funds to an entire district or program;  keep track of multiple functions simultaneously occurring throughout a district; hire, direct, and coordinate the work of a diverse group of subordinate employees engaged in a variety of recreational activities;  plan, organize, and conduct meetings related to the group or purpose of the meeting; communicate orally, one-to-one or in a group, sufficient to provide information; deal tactfully and effectively with staff, department management, Council offices, other City departments, community organizations, and the public; write effectively sufficient to organize material and provide information; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

Candidates will also be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JANUARY 16, 2017 to JANUARY 27, 2017.

Prior to the scheduling of interviews, candidates will be required to prepare some written material on a topic related to the duties and responsibilities of a Recreation Supervisor. This essay material will not be scored separately, but will be presented to the interview panel for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computer) will be made available to type their responses. In addition, as part of the evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will also consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview panel.

Candidates must complete the advisory essay. Those who do not complete the advisory essay will not be invited to the interview and will be considered to have failed the entire examination. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the advisory essay session, which will be held in a single half day session on SATURDAY, DECEMBER 17, 2016, in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 2460 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-14-16 REV 10-27-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYEMENT OPPORTUNITY EMLOYER

