




RETIREMENT PLAN MANAGER
Class Code:            9149
Open Date:        05-23-14
ANNUAL SALARY

$157,393 to $195,541

NOTE:

For information regarding reciprocity between City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Retirement Plan Manager develops, recommends, and implements policies of a Board of Commissioners or Board of Administration; directs the administration of a retirement or pension program, including programs for investing funds and administering benefits; plans, organizes, and directs the work of employees engaged in such activities; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles at the level of an Assistant Retirement Plan Manager which provides experience in the development and administration of retirement benefit services or operations of a pension or retirement plan; or
2. Two years as an Assistant Retirement Plan Manager with the City of Los Angeles; or
3. Graduation from a recognized four-year college or university with at least 24 semester or 36 quarter units completed in finance, accounting, or business administration; and
4. Three years of full-time paid professional experience performing two or more of the following areas:
* Public retirement/pension plan
* Benefits administration
* Investment counseling
* Financial administration
* Actuarial concepts
* Legal requirements of retirement/pension plan; and
5. Three years of full-time paid experience supervising professional staff performing two or more of the areas indicated in Requirement Number 3.
	
NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete a Retirement Plan Manager Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing.  The Retirement Plan Manager Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application.  Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Candidates who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from a recognized four-year college or university in order to obtain that position.  Therefore, to be considered "professional", non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
5. On your application, your work history must clearly distinguish between your years of experience personally performing and years of experience supervising the required areas by separately listing the dates of personal performance and supervision.
6. A Master's degree in Business Administration, Public Administration, or Accounting is desired, but not required.
7. All supplemental materials requested for this examination should be submitted during the filing period.  You cannot be tested for this examination unless your application materials are complete.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted online. When you are viewing the online job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. Online job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JUNE 5, 2014.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements.  You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received.  Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from May 23, 2014 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

EXPERT REVIEW COMMITTEE

Should a large number of qualified applicants file for this examination, an expert review committee may be assembled to evaluate each applicant's qualifications for the position of Retirement Plan Manager.  In this evaluation, the expert review committee will assess each applicant's training and experience based upon the information in the applicant's City employment application and the Qualifications Questionnaire.  Those applicants considered by the expert review committee as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Retirement Plan Manager, based solely on the information presented to the committee, will be invited to participate in the interview.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience and background as they provide the knowledge of:  regulations and operating procedures of the City's retirement plans including benefit and financial administrations; the principles and practices of pension and retirement fund investment management including institutional investing, asset classification, and investment strategizing for long term goals; safety principles and practices; principles of organizational and personnel management and personnel administration; City and Personnel Department rules, polices, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity; and ability to interpret actuarial studies and reports and statistical and financial data; develop and administer large operational budgets and statistical plans; exercise sound business, investment, and administrative judgment; plan and supervise the maintenance of records; apply sound supervisory and leadership principles and practices; formulate and implement practical and effective solutions to problems; develop, implement, and oversee organizational policies and programs; make oral presentations before large groups; communicate effectively and deal tactfully with a variety of individuals; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additionally, the interview board members will consider the information in the candidates' Qualifications Questionnaire in their overall evaluation of the candidates' job qualifications.  Candidates may expect the interviewers to discuss the information on their Qualifications Questionnaire with them during the interview.

Candidates will be notified later by mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of AUGUST 18, 2014 to AUGUST 29, 2014.
                                     
NOTES: 

1. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 109 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
2. Promotional candidates will accrue seniority at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those classes which provide qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of these candidates.
3. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive higher scores, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit as indicated above, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
4. The successful candidate(s) may be required to pass a medical examination prior to appointment.
5. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
6. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
7. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
8. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.

NOTICE
                             
 If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.
THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 9149 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05-23-14


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

