SAFETY ENGINEER
Class Code:       1727
Open Date:  02-17-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY
 
$83,290 to $121,772 
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $112,118 to $139,394.

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
	
DUTIES

A Safety Engineer develops, implements, directs, maintains, and assesses occupational safety and health programs; monitors compliance with City, departmental, and applicable State and Federal occupational safety and health standards; coordinates and/or provides occupational safety and health training; makes recommendations for safety improvements; liaisons on safety matters with line supervisors, other departments, and local or state regulatory agencies; recommends, facilitates, directs or conducts safety investigations and inspections; supervises professional and clerical personnel engaged in occupational safety and health work; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force, and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/ MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Four years of full-time paid professional experience at the level of Safety Engineering Associate performing occupational safety duties such as, developing and organizing safety programs and making recommendations to improve workplace safety.  

PROCESS NOTES 

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. To be at the level of a Safety Engineering Associate requires graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a Bachelor's Degree or Master's Degree in occupational health science, health and safety studies or a closely related field; or Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university and one year of full-time paid professional safety experience in the enforcement of Federal OSHA, CAL/OSHA or any state OSHA regulations which includes facility or field inspections and the development of safety programs.
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
5. For qualifying work experience in the Requirement Section, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional," experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree. 
6. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree and coursework.
7. Upon appointment, a Safety Engineer may be required to furnish an automobile, properly insured, for use in City service.  Mileage will be paid on the basis of established rates.
8. Abiding by Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) laws and safety rules and regulations is not considered professional safety engineering experience.
9. Certification as an Industrial Hygienist, Safety Professional, or Professional Engineer is highly desirable.


SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions. Only persons possessing the following at the time of filing may be considered for appointment to fill such positions. 

Registration as a Professional Engineer with the State of California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists with a degree in Chemical or Mechanical Engineering. Applicants with a Professional Engineer (PE) license in Chemical or Mechanical Engineering with the State of California must list their PE license number and expiration date in the Supplemental Questions of the on-line application.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacityfor Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from February 17, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory 
		                   Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Judgment and Decision Making, Analytical Ability, Self Management, Interpersonal Skills, Written Communication, Leadership, and Industry Knowledge, including knowledge of: the provisions of Federal, State, and local laws and regulations related to occupational health and safety; principles of safety engineering such as the evaluation, recognition, and control of health and safety hazards; safety principles and practices applicable to construction, operation, and general industry work settings; methods and techniques used to perform safety audits and inspections; analysis and interpretation of accident, incident, and near miss data such as how to identify trends of safety and/or health issues; principles and practices of ergonomic and workplace design; methods and techniques used to conduct accident investigations such as how to perform a root cause analysis; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Safety Engineer.  

At the time of the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Safety Engineer. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory essay will be disqualified. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their advisory essay responses.

It is anticipated that interviews for this examination will begin during the period of APRIL 17, 2017 to APRIL 28, 2017.  Candidates will be notified by email of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.

NOTES:	

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated in the bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.  
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE: 

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 1727 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 02-17-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

