SAFETY ENGINEER ELEVATORS                                                        
Class Code:       4263
Open Date:  11-20-15
Revised: 12-02-15
				(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$84,731 to $94,440

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Safety Engineer Elevators inspects escalators, elevators, moving walks and similar devices for conformance to State laws and City ordinances regulating their design, installation, maintenance, and operation.

REQUIREMENT

Four years of full-time paid experience in the inspection of elevators or in the design, maintenance, or repair of elevators, two years of which was at the journey level.  

Two years of mechanical or electrical work experience or mechanical or electrical engineering upper division college or university education may be substituted for two years of non-journey-level experience.

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete a Safety Engineer Elevators Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Safety Engineer Elevators Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
3. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Applicants substituting upper division mechanical or electrical engineering courses for non-journey level experience must list their course titles with the number of semester or quarter units and completion dates in the Supplemental Questions section of the application. Applicants who fail to provide this information on their application will be not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed. 
5. Experience claimed on all applications will be reviewed by a panel of subject matter experts to insure that the applicants meet the bulletin requirements.
6. 30 semester or 45 quarter units of mechanical or electrical engineering upper division courses, from an accredited college or university, may be substituted on a year for year basis, for a maximum of two years of the required non-journey level experience.
7. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. 
8. A valid Certificate of Competency to Inspect Elevators issued by the California Department of Industrial Relations, or written evidence by the California Department of Industrial Relations that such a Certificate will be issued, is required prior to completion of a six-month probationary period.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will be accepted online. When you are viewing the online job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  Online job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be completed at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2015.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will proceed to the application review process in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received.  Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from November 20, 2015 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS
	
Examination Weight:  Application Review . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of a review of candidates' City employment application and Qualifications Questionnaire by a panel of subject matter experts to ensure that minimum requirements are met.  Since these reviews will be made solely on the basis of the written information contained on the candidate's City employment application and Qualifications Questionnaire, it is each candidate's responsibility to ensure that the application is complete with accurate descriptions of relevant experience.

In the review, emphasis may be placed on an evaluation of the nature and adequacy of the candidate's experience, training, and professional development as they have provided the background needed to carry out the duties of a Safety Engineer Elevators. Emphasis will be placed on the following: Reading Comprehension, Analytical Ability, Safety Focus, Job Knowledge, Electrical Understanding, Customer Service, Following Oral Directions and Following Written Directions.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/JobAnalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Safety Engineer Elevators.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. Based on City policy, before being hired in one of these positions, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol screening test.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.  

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY  
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 4263 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-20-15 Rev. 12-02-15


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

