SAFETY ENGINEERING ASSOCIATE

Class Code:       1726
Open Date:  05-25-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$74,623 to $90,222 and $84,083 to $101,685
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $92,978 to $115,508 and $81,807 to $101,622.

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Safety Engineering Associate assists in administering a program for employee safety and accident prevention for a City department or several departments.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a Bachelor's Degree or Master's Degree in occupational health science, health and safety studies or a closely related field; or
2. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university and one year of full-time paid professional safety experience in the enforcement of Federal OSHA, CAL/OSHA or any state OSHA regulations which includes facility or field inspections and the development of safety programs.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Safety Engineering Associate Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Safety Engineering Associate Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who will complete the education or experience requirements within six months of the date of filing may apply. However, they cannot be appointed until the full education or experience requirement is met.
3. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Applicants must list their school name and location, type of degree earned and major in the Education Section of the application. Applicants who fail to provide this information on their application will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
5. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional", non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
6. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
7. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.
8. Upon appointment, a Safety Engineering Associate may be required to furnish an automobile, properly insured, for use in City service. Mileage will be paid according to established rates. 
9. Some positions may require the use of a respirator, self-contained breathing apparatus or other safety devices in hazardous environments.
10. Some positions may require working in confined spaces or other hazardous circumstances.




SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010(b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training. Only persons possessing the following at the time of filing may be considered for appointment to fill such positions. 

A valid Occupational Therapist license issued by the California Board of Occupational Therapy

NOTE:

Applicants that desire to be considered for this Selective Certification must list their Occupational Therapist license number in the Supplemental Questions Section of the on-line application. Applicants who fail to provide the information at the time of filing will not be considered further in selective certification.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be completed at the time of filling for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Safety Engineering Associate may be evaluated based on the candidate's responses to the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Safety Engineering Associate based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of personal and professional qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and background as they demonstrate the knowledge of: safety engineering principles; hazards encountered in construction, operation, maintenance work and other types of City employment; applicable accident prevention techniques; Federal, State, and local laws and regulations relating to employee safety and accident prevention, such as CAL/OSHA; principles and methods of employee safety training; and the ability to: detect hazards in various work areas and work practices; plan, organize, coordinate, analyze, and implement a safety and accident prevention program for the use in one or more sections of a large City department; devise adequate safeguards against hazardous working conditions; communicate effectively both orally and in writing; present safety information to a large audience; deal tactfully and effectively with management and employees; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of JULY 23, 2018 TO AUGUST 3, 2018.

NOTES:

1. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1726 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05-25-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

