SAFETY ADMINISTRATOR

Class Code:       1728
Open Date:  10-16-15
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$112,355 to $151,421
The salary for the Department of Water and Power is $118,535 to $147,287

NOTES:

1. The current salary is subject to change.  You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Safety Administrator plans, organizes, directs and supervises the development and administration of a comprehensive, occupational safety and industrial hygiene program for City departments; applies sound management principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities and does other related work.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a degree in environmental science and/or occupational health and safety or a closely related field; and
2. Three years of full-time paid experience as a Safety Engineer or Senior Industrial Hygienist with the City of Los Angeles; or
3. Three years full-time paid professional experience as a Safety Engineer supervising a complex safety program involving survey, analysis, training, enforcement, program development and implementation.

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application all candidates must complete the Safety Administrator Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing.  The Safety Administrator Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions of the City Application.  Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed. 
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license.  Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency.  A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
4. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that required possession of a degree from a four-year college or university in order to obtain that position.  Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
5. For qualifying experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, to be at a level of Safety Engineer requires a minimum of a four-year college or university degree in occupational health and safety studies or a closely related field; and four years of full-time paid professional safety experience in the enforcement of Federal OSHA, CAL/OSHA or any state OSHA regulations which includes facility or filed inspections and the development of safety programs.  Therefore, non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after the four years full-time paid safety engineering work.
         

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015.


NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from October 16, 2015 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Safety Administrator may be evaluated based on the candidate's responses to the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Safety Administrator based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:    Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
			    Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%
	
The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of technical and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's experience, background and personal qualifications as they have provide the knowledge of:  administrative principles and practices required to manage safety and industrial hygiene programs; safety engineering principles and practices, including testing procedures and methods used to correct existing and potential safety hazards sufficient to develop recommendations; health, environmental, and maintenance hazards encountered in construction operations and other hazards encountered by City employees sufficient to ensure compliance with safety regulations and minimize incidences of accidents; provisions of Federal, State and local laws and regulations relating to employee safety and accident prevention, including Safety Orders of the California Division of Health and Safety and the California Vehicle Code; activities and services of national, State and local safety and industrial hygiene organizations;  principles and methods of employee safety training, including effective communication strategies used to convey accident prevention information sufficient to increase safety awareness; City's budgetary process sufficient to develop budget proposals for safety programs; fundamental principles and practices of supervision and management, including directing, assigning, motivating, training, disciplining, commending, and evaluating the work of subordinates; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity and Memoranda of Understanding; and the ability to direct, manage and supervise the work of professional, technical, and clerical employees engaged in professional occupational safety and health activities; initiate, develop, implement and secure programs directed towards the improvement of safe working conditions and reduction of hazards and accidents; issue safety bulletins and other communications on changes in law, policy or procedures affecting workplace safety; prepare and analyze statistical data sufficient to summarize potential safety risks and program outcomes; make clear and convincing oral presentations to elected officials, City managers, and others on behalf of the City; communicate both orally and in writing in a clear, concise, and effective manner; deal tactfully and effectively with management, employees and the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

On the day of the interview, candidates will be required to respond to an advisory writing exercise related to the duties and responsibilities of a Safety Administrator. This essay material will not be separately scored, but it will be presented to the interview panel for discussion with the candidate and consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate's qualifications. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory essay may be disqualified. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their essay responses. 

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interviews, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JANUARY 4, 2016 to JANUARY 15, 2016. 

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lactiy.org/exams/verity_disability.pdf. 
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. Promotional candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those City classes, which provide qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of the candidates.
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit as indicated above, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
8. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
9. Upon appointment, a Safety Administrator may be required to furnish an automobile, properly insured, for use in City service.  Mileage will be paid according to the City's established rate.
10. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined.  Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23 as applicable and within the required timeframe; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 1728. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-16-15

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

