SENIOR CITY PLANNER   
                        
     Class Code:       7947
Open Date: 05-12-17 
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$98,261 to $143,633

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Senior City Planner assigns reviews and evaluates the work of a specialized unit or planning office engaged in professional City planning activities, applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities. Additionally, the Senior City Planner functions as a senior-level supervisor and accordingly develops Departmental work programs inclusive of project timetables and budgets, and occasionally may be called upon to develop long-range strategic plans for sections of the Department.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience as a City Planner with the City of Los Angeles; or
2. Four years of full-time paid experience as a City Planning Associate with the City of Los Angeles; or
3. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a major in urban planning, urban studies, urban design, architecture, landscape architecture, geography or a closely-related field and six years of full-time paid professional experience in long-range or current urban planning, with two of the six years supervising a professional planning unit.

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training in one or more of the following areas.  Only persons possessing the following as of the close of the filling period may be considered for appointment to fill such positions.

1. Two years of full-time paid experience creating, implementing, and/or evaluating urban design policies, programs, regulations, and/or guidelines for citywide, local area or project specific application within a government agency.
2. Two years of full-time paid experience in the field of environmental policy and/or environmental analysis in determining California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) compliance, and evaluating projects' environmental impacts.
3. Two years of full-time paid experience in the field of historic preservation or preservation planning, including the implementation and application of the Secretary of the Interior's Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties, and oversight of historic landmarks or historic districts.

 NOTE:

Those individuals that desire to be considered for Selective Certification 1, 2 and/or 3, as described above, must attain a passing score in a Training and Experience Questionnaire.   Candidates will be required to take the Training and Experience Questionnaire, which will consist of behavioral based essay questions. Further details will be forthcoming regarding the scheduling of this test.




PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application all candidates must complete the Senior City Planner Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Senior City Planner Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions of the City Application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Applicants qualifying under Requirement #3 must list their school name and location, type of degree earned and major in the Education Section of the online City application.  Applicants who fail to provide this information on their application will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
4. A valid California's driver's license may be required. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
5. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position.  Therefore, to be considered "professional", non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
6. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency.   A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. 
7. A master's degree in urban planning is desired but not required.
8. Membership in the American Institute of Certified Planners (AICP) is desired but not required.
9. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree and/or coursework.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs  for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 25, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from May 12, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Senior City Planner may be evaluated based on the candidate's responses to the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Senior City Planner based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS   

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:   Training and Experience Questionnaire Evaluation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
                                         Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire and an interview.  In the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire, the following competencies may be evaluated: judgment and decision making, initiative, results orientation, interpersonal skills, supervisory knowledge, emotional maturity, and job knowledge, including knowledge of:  the environmental review process under the City of Los Angeles and CEQA guidelines, and levels of environmental clearance pursuant to State laws; planning theories regarding urban form, land use, transportation, infrastructure, housing, urban design, and historic preservation; urban planning challenges such as air quality, reduced mobility, shortage of housing, decaying infrastructure, seismic safety, solid waste and wastewater management; organization, content, and requirements of the Planning and Zoning Code section of the Los Angeles Municipal Code; Federal and State laws, legislative issues, and court cases affecting local planning and zoning; State General Plan as it affects City planning policies and project review process; zoning principles and implementation tools; procedures and processes involved in the review, adoption, approval, or disapproval of proposed general plan elements, community plans, code amendments, zone changes, environmental documents, conditional uses, subdivisions, and zone variances; established planning policies and methods; functions, scope and authority of other departments and agencies sufficient to cooperate effectively on matters of mutual concern, ensure necessary coordination, and assure that projects are in compliance with State and regional policies; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

The qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation.  The expert review panel will assign a numeric score for each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications as described on the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire.  Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the expert review panel. 
Passing Score for the Qualifying Test

The passing score for the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying test is administered.  Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the qualifying test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years.  Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the time and location of the qualifying written test. The qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, JULY 29, 2017, in Los Angeles. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their responses to the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire. Additional test dates may be added, if needed.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire in order to be invited to the interview.

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview.  In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: judgment and decision making, initiative, results orientation, emotional maturity, supervisory knowledge, oral communication, interpersonal skills, and job knowledge.  Job knowledge areas may include knowledge of:  the environmental review process under the City of Los Angeles and CEQA guidelines, and levels of environmental clearance pursuant to State laws; planning theories regarding urban form, land use, transportation, infrastructure, housing, urban design, and historic preservation; urban planning challenges such as air quality, reduced mobility, shortage of housing, decaying infrastructure, seismic safety, solid waste and wastewater management; organization, content, and requirements of the Planning and Zoning Code section of the Los Angeles Municipal Code; Federal and State laws, legislative issues, and court cases affecting local planning and zoning; State General Plan as it affects City planning policies and project review process; zoning principles and implementation tools; procedures and processes involved in the review, adoption, approval, or disapproval of proposed general plan elements, community plans, code amendments, zone changes, environmental documents, conditional uses, subdivisions, and zone variances; established planning policies and methods; functions, scope and authority of other departments and agencies sufficient to cooperate effectively on matters of mutual concern, ensure necessary coordination, and assure that projects are in compliance with State and regional policies; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Senior City Planner. 

As part of the evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will also consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a job analysis and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 7947 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05-12-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

Class Code 7947. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05-12-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

Class Code 7947. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05-12-17


