SENIOR CONSTRUCTION INSPECTOR 

  Class Code:      7294
Open Date: 09-01-17
Revised: 09-13-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$89,345 to $108,012
The salary in the Los Angeles World Airports is $82,580 to $120,749.

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. In some positions, higher salaries are paid for night work or hazardous work. An employee in this position may be subject to weekend and evening work assignments in some City departments.

DUTIES

A Senior Construction Inspector inspects the construction of a wide variety of large scale and complex public works, utilities, recreation and park, airport, harbor and improvement projects to ensure compliance with safety regulations, plans, specifications, contract documents, and legal requirements; assigns, reviews, and evaluates the work of Construction Inspectors assigned to such projects; conducts physical inspections, maintains records, writes reports and prepares progress estimates for payment purposes; may administer construction contracts and permits; may assist in construction inspection support and operational activities; may perform inspections at locations outside the City of Los Angeles; applies supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective workforce; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Four years of full-time paid experience as a Construction Inspector or in a class at that level which provides experience in inspecting public works type improvements or utilities projects for conformance to plans, specifications, contracts, and agreements; or 
2. Four years of full-time paid experience as an Electrical Inspector, Building Inspector, or Building Mechanical Inspector, two years of which must have been performing construction contract administration with the Bureau of Contract Administration.

One year of education from an accredited college or trade school which includes completion of 3 courses in engineering or inspecting technology may be substituted for each year of the required experience lacking up to a maximum of two years for Requirement #1. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirements have been met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
3. Public works type improvement projects include, but are not limited to: paving; street lighting; storm drains; sanitary sewers; wharves; water mains; public buildings and facilities; reinforced concrete; structural steel or masonry structures; traffic signals; water and sewage treatment facilities; and harbor and airport facilities.
4. A valid license as a Registered Deputy Building Inspector in one or more of the specialized certifications issued by the Department of Building and Safety of the City of Los Angeles may be required prior to appointment.  In most departments, an Inspector with a license receives a salary bonus.
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
6. Candidates completing the exam process and who substituted one year of experience with one year of coursework from an accredited college or trade school will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying coursework.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs.


NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
1. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of Training and Experience Questionnaire administered online. The weighted examination score will be based entirely on an evaluation of training and experience wherein candidates will be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background and personal qualifications and abilities. Emphasis will be placed on the following: Judgment and Decision Making, Attention to Detail, Interpersonal Skills, Credibility, Written Communication, Leadership, Safety Focus including knowledge of: pertinent safety regulations related to work on a construction site such as fall protection and working in confined spaces; work area traffic control standards, regulations, and procedures such as traffic detours and lane closures; common electrical hazards such as improper grounding and overloaded circuits; and Job Knowledge including knowledge of: standard inspection procedures for public works construction projects such as justification of payments and issuing of memoranda or noncompliance notices; the scope of authority of parties involved in public works construction projects including the roles and responsibilities of inspectors, engineers, and contractors; basic engineering terminology such as as-builts and slope; basic construction terminology such as water densification and asphalt concrete (AC) pavement; Standard Plans such as preapproved plans for street lighting and sewers and storm drains; equipment commonly used in construction; methods and procedures for testing construction materials in order to ensure design strength of material per plans and specifications; the requirements and standard practices for sampling construction material such as sampling procedures and sample increments; the characteristics and behavior of soils in order to ensure proper shoring methods, backfill requirements, and consolidation of materials; survey terms such as stationing and beginning of curve return (BCR) sufficient to read or interpret grade sheets; tools and methods for checking grade such as a level and string line; procedures and standards for concrete construction including concrete placing, finishing, curing, and waterproofing methods; paving materials such as oil content and the proper placing procedures including temperature at the time of laying and rolling; the types, characteristics and uses of pipe including the methods for installing pipe; the basic principles of electrical installation including the types, sizes and grades of electrical wiring used in various types of electrical work; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

The Training and Experience Questionnaire will be administered online. Candidates invited to participate in the Training and Experience Questionnaire will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to complete the online Training and Experience Questionnaire, and will be required to do so by the date provided in the instructions sent to them via email. Candidates that do not complete the online Training and Experience Questionnaire as required will not be considered further in this examination.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses  and clicking on Competencies under Senior Construction Inspector.

The Training and Experience Questionnaires and City employment applications of all candidates will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation.  The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the Training and Experience Questionnaire.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study. 
2. The incumbents of some positions in this class may be required to pass an annual or periodic work fitness evaluation to determine their eligibility for continued employment in this class.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
6. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list. 
7. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY 
ON A INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS ONLY

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7294 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09-01-17 REV 09-13-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 


Class Code 7294 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09-01-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

