SENIOR ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER

					 	         																  Class Code:      4316
																							      		                    Open Date: 11-16-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$49,882 to $74,917 and $54,997 to $82,622

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Senior Animal Control Officer assigns, reviews, and evaluates the work of animal control personnel engaged in the enforcement of State laws and City ordinances concerning the care, treatment, licensing, and impounding of animals; supervises humane investigations and permit inspections, and exotic and dangerous wildlife control; issues citations and makes investigations of violations; testifies in court; maintains records and prepares various reports; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity/workplace diversity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid experience as an Animal Control Officer.

PROCESS NOTES

1.  Candidates who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2.  A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants must have a driving record free of accidents and/or moving violations within the last year. Applicants who have three or more moving violations or at-fault accidents, or any combination of moving violations or at-fault accidents totaling three or more within the last five years, will be disqualified and will not be eligible for hire.


WHERE TO APPLY


Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2018.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of technical and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the nature and adequacy of the candidate's experience and training as they have provided an understanding of: City Charter provisions, City ordinances and State laws regarding animal regulation; department operating rules and practices related to animal care and control; safety practices and principles; functions and interrelationships of other regulatory departments and agencies; supervisory and administrative principles and practices including, but not limited to planning, assigning, evaluating and monitoring the work of subordinates; City personnel rules and practices, including equal employment opportunity principles; effective oral communication skills; ability to work effectively in a team; conflict resolution skills; and other necessary knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of JANUARY 14, 2019 to JANUARY 25, 2019.

NOTES: 

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis. 
5. Candidates filing on a promotional basis will have seniority credits added to their final examination score at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
 ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, sexual identity, sexual expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  

Class Code 4316 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11-16-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

