SENIOR STRUCTURAL ENGINEER

                                                                                                       Class Code:      9425
Open Date:  04-07-17
REVISED: 04-20-17
				                                                  (Exam Open to Current City Employees) 
ANNUAL SALARY

$111,373 to $158,500

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
		
DUTIES

A Senior Structural Engineer plans, organizes and directs the work of an engineering staff engaged in the preparation or checking of designs, plans, specifications, and reports for a variety of structures; performs the more difficult and responsible technical engineering work; participates in the budget process; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Registration as a Structural Engineer with the California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists; and
2. Two years of full-time paid professional engineering experience at the level of Structural Engineer; or
3. Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles in a position designated as a Project Manager I, II, or III receiving the appropriate salary bonus; or
4. Four years of full-time paid professional engineering experience in a position at the level of Structural Engineering Associate III. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Applicants applying under Requirement # 3 must indicate the appropriate pay grade for each City engineering position listed in the application.
4. All applicants must list their Professional Engineer in Structural Engineering license number and expiration date in the Supplemental Questions section of the on-line application. Failure to provide this information will result in your disqualification.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE


Applications must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 2017.



SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory 
                                      Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of experience and personal qualifications by interview. During the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's knowledge of: engineering and architectural principles and practices as applied to the design of buildings, bridges, and other structures; design features, standards, and construction practices used in the building industry and public works; practices used in preparing and reviewing designs, plans and specifications; safety principles and practices as applied to structural engineering; Municipal Codes and other regulations used in the building industry and public works, including the Los Angeles, California, and International Building Codes; methods and practices used in preparing budgets and cost, time, and project completion estimates; general procedures used for the procurement of contracts and professional services agreements; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity policies and Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) as they apply to subordinate personnel; principles and practices of supervision, including directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, mentoring, disciplining, commending, and evaluating the work of subordinates; and the ability to interpret proposed legislation, laws, and regulations for their effect on the structural engineering work and activities of one's department; analyze the economic aspects of structural engineering projects; apply administrative and managerial practices and techniques in planning, directing, coordinating, organizing, and controlling the work of a group of employees; lead and influence subordinate employees in order to reach organizational goals; manage time to complete multiple ongoing and emergency assignments; make timely and accurate decisions relating to technical and administrative matters; analyze, review, and supervise the preparation of comprehensive engineering and administrative reports and contracts; estimate staffing needs for a variety of structural engineering projects; communicate effectively both orally and in writing; establish and maintain effective communications with management, peers, and subordinates; perceive and react to the needs of others; establish effective relations and deal tactfully and effectively with employees, contractors, elected officials, governmental agencies, the public, and others; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

At the time of the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Senior Structural Engineer. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory essay may be disqualified. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their advisory essay responses.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interviews for this examination will begin during the period of JUNE 12, 2017 to JUNE 23, 2017.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 9425 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04-07-17 REV 04-20-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

