SENIOR WORKERS' COMPENSATION ANALYST  

                  														 Class Code:       1769
                                                                                                       Open Date:  04-14-17
REVISED: 04-27-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$67,066 to $98,073
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $106,174 to $112,104

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change.  You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
3. For information regarding reciprocity between City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Senior Workers' Compensation Analyst analyzes claims for workers' compensation benefits; confers with and advises concerned parties and agencies; assigns, reviews, and evaluates the work of professional employees investigating, analyzing, and providing appropriate benefits for such claims; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. 	Two years of full-time paid experience as a Workers' Compensation Analyst or Senior Claims Representative with the City of Los Angeles; or
2.	Three years of full-time paid experience as a workers' compensation analyst or in a position at that level administering indemnity claims, investigating and adjusting workers' compensation claims.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all candidates must complete the Senior Workers' Compensation Analyst Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Senior Workers' Compensation Analyst Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions of the City Application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Prior to appointment, all Senior Workers' Compensation Analyst candidates must possess a "Self-Insurance Administrator's Examination Certificate of Achievement" issued by the State of California (per California Code Regulations Section 15452).
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license.  Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record  within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs  for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.	

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 4, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from April 14, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

EXPERT REVIEW COMMITTEE

Should a large number of qualified applicants file for this examination, an expert review committee may be assembled to evaluate each applicant's qualifications for the position of Senior Workers' Compensation Analyst.  In this evaluation, the expert review committee will assess each applicant's training and experience based upon the information in the applicant's City employment application and the Qualifications Questionnaire.  Those applicants considered by the expert review committee as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Senior Workers' Compensation Analyst, based solely on the information presented to the committee, will be invited to participate in the interview.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:   Essay . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
 										Interview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's experience, training, and professional qualifications, including knowledge of: policies as they apply to workers' compensation benefits, requirements for acceptance or denial of claims, payment methods, reimbursement requirements, and collection agencies and lien claimants as required to ensure that benefits are paid in accordance with policies; procedures as they relate to processing workers' compensation claims; rules of the Workers' Compensation Appeals Board; care and treatment of occupational injuries and diseases as it applies to estimating the time required for treatment or rehabilitation, making appropriate medical referrals, anticipating case costs, and analyzing medical information; apportionment needed to calculate the percentage of permanent disability for specific injuries; policies regarding reasonable accommodation, light duty program, Citywide placement and Supplemental Job Displacement Benefits (SJDB); utilization review processes; supervisory principles and practices, including Equal Employment Opportunity policies; and the ability to apply principles of the Permanent Disability Rating System as required to determine an accurate Permanent Disability rating and make payments; apply workers' compensation information from a variety of sources; parameters of employers liability in reviewing treatment and billing reports; analyze and interpret information related to workers' compensation claims and case management to extract the information needed to assess the nature of disabilities, recuperation time, return to work, approximate claims costs, organize significant facts and details for case discussions with employer, employees, or interested parties, and make recommendations to legal defense attorneys or other litigation representatives; direct and coordinate the work of groups of employees engaged in a variety of workers' compensation activities; write clear, concise, and accurate correspondence and reports using correct grammar, syntax, punctuation, and spelling; communicate orally with others to provide and obtain information clearly and accurately;  present workers' compensation issues with the appropriate degree of tact and authority; work cooperatively and interact effectively with others; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

At the time of the interview, candidates will also be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Senior Workers' Compensation Analyst. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate's qualifications. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory essay may be disqualified. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their writing exercise responses.

	Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JUNE 19, 2017 to JUNE 30, 2017.  

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
 INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1769 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04-14-17 REV 04-27-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

