SENIOR ROOFER

 Class Code:       3477
 Open Date:  10-17-08
Revised:  11-06-08

ANNUAL SALARY 

$68,006 (flat rated)
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $76,044 (flat rated)

DUTIES

A Senior Roofer supervises and works with a crew of journey-level roofers and helpers engaged in the application and repair of composition, asphaltic and other types of roofing.

REQUIREMENT

Two years of full-time paid experience as a Roofer with the City of Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. Candidates who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.    However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license and a good driving record are required. Applicants must have a driving record free of accidents and/or moving violations within the last year. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if within the past 36 months they were convicted of a major moving violation, such as driving under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs, and may be disqualified if there are three or more violations and/or at-fault accidents within the past 36 months. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications WILL ONLY BE ACCEPTED ON THE CITY APPLICATION FORM.
You may apply on-line at https://personline.lacity.org/job_app/, or you may download a paper application at http://www.lacity.org/per/appform.htm and send it by mail.

Applications may also be obtained at the following locations and times:

Personnel Department Building
700 East Temple St., Room 100, Los Angeles, CA  90012
Monday through Friday
7:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m.
(213) 473-9311
TDD (213) 473-9312Van Nuys City Hall 
14410 Sylvan St., Room 105, Van Nuys, CA 91401
Tuesdays only
8:30 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. 
Constituent Services Center
8475 South Vermont Avenue, Los Angeles, CA  90044
Mondays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays only
8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m.Cypress Park Community Center
929 Cypress Avenue, Los Angeles, CA  90065
Wednesdays only
12:00 noon until 5:00 p.m.APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2008.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely on an evaluation of your training, work experience and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview emphasis will be placed on your understanding of the material, methods and procedures used in preparing, applying and repairing composition asphaltic and other types of roofing; safety practices, including fall protection; inspecting completed assignments for compliance with specifications and codes; estimating necessary materials; the ability to apply supervisory principles and practices including equal employment opportunity; deal tactfully and effectively with others; and other necessary knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JANUARY 5, 2009 through JANUARY 16, 2009.

If six or fewer candidates file for this examination, the examination will consist entirely of a review of the candidates' City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum requirements are met.

NOTES:
	
1. Some positions may require a valid California Class A or Class B driver's license with a valid medical certificate. Applicants must submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1808.1. Applicants must have a driving record free of accidents and/or moving violations within the last year. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if within the past 36 months they were convicted of a major moving violation, such as driving under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs, and may be disqualified if there are three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents within the past 36 months.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.    Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.



THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
 ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS


The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  Applicants or employees who believe that they have been discriminated against are encouraged to contact the Office of Discrimination Complaint Resolution at (213) 473-9123.


Class Code 3477. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10-17-08

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

