SENIOR ELECTRICAL MECHANIC
					                                    
					                                         Class Code:      3834
					                                         Open Date: 06-02-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$111,540 flat rated.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Senior Electrical Mechanic acts as lead for and works with a small group of Electrical Mechanics and helpers performing skilled electrical and mechanical work in installing and maintaining electric equipment in electric stations, generating plants, pumping and chlorinating stations, buildings, and similar facilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid experience as an Electrical Mechanic with the City of Los Angeles, Department of Water and Power, working in DDR Numbers 93-38107, 82-38302, 82-38132, or 72-48039.

PROCESS NOTES


1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Time served as an Electrical Mechanic Trainee, the Department of Water and Power DDR Number 94-38006, will not be considered qualifying experience.
3. Some positions may require a minimum of two years of experience working on or around energized high voltage equipment.
4. A valid driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
5. Some positions may require a valid California Class A or B driver's license and valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles, prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). Candidates will be asked to submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1808.1 prior to appointment.
6. Verification of completion of the Qualified Electrical Worker Annual Refresher Course (ARC) within the last two years by the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power is required at the time of appointment.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted online. When you are viewing the online job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. Online job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs  for Promotional Examinations. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written Test  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination score will be based entirely on a multiple-choice test. In the written test, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of: electrical and mechanical theory, common nomenclature, appropriate tools, gauges, testing instruments, materials, and practices and procedures used in the installation, operation, maintenance, and repair of transformers, circuit breakers, electronic controls, and electrical, mechanical, hydraulic and pneumatic equipment used in electric stations, generating plants, pumping and chlorinating stations, buildings, and similar facilities; practices and procedures used in the assembly and dismantling of electrical and mechanical equipment; rigging and hoisting methods used to perform the installation and field maintenance of electrical equipment, wiring, and circuits; inspection procedures used in electrical transmission, distribution, receiving equipment, and water systems electrical work; pertinent Cal/OSHA, State Safety Orders, DWP Operating Orders, and National Electric Code safety practices, rules and procedures applicable when working with or around electrical or energized equipment; DWP procedures for obtaining clearances and "OK TO's"; first aid procedures relevant to electrical work; pertinent City, DWP, and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity; supervisory principles and practices such as planning, delegating, evaluating, organizing, and directing; and the ability to assess and diagnose malfunctions in electrical and mechanical equipment; read and interpret equipment manuals, construction plans, circuits, wiring diagrams, and schematics; perform basic arithmetic, metric conversion of lengths and weights, basic plane geometry, algebra, and trigonometry sufficient for skilled electrical and mechanical work; deal tactfully and effectively with others; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single, half-day session on SATURDAY, AUGUST 12, 2017, in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. The examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


Class Code 3834 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .06-02-17

