SENIOR TAX AUDITOR
                                                                                                       Class Code:       1519
                                                                                                       Open Date:  06-23-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$79,511 to $116,259

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf. 

DUTIES

A Senior Tax Auditor assigns, reviews and evaluates the work of professional and clerical employees engaged in conducting or reviewing field or office audits of financial records of persons, businesses or organizations to determine the accuracy of self-assessed tax payments to the City of Los Angeles; supervises internal audits of operations related to business tax and permit enforcement, audit and administration; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid professional experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Tax Auditor; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles in a class at the level of Tax Auditor and which provides experience in conducting or reviewing field audits of financial records to determine the accuracy of self-assessed tax payments.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Employees of this class are required to perform field audits and monitor the work performance of subordinate employees, both of which require travel to various locations within Los Angeles.  Senior Tax Auditors shall provide their own efficient transportation for the performance of these duties and the vehicles used shall be properly insured for use in City service upon appointment.  Mileage will be paid according to established policies.  A Senior Tax Auditor may also be required to travel to and from work at locations outside of Los Angeles and/or outside of the State.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure they have time to resolve any technical issues they may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JULY 6, 2017.



SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying  
	                               Interview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying multiple-choice written test and interview. In the qualifying written test, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: terminology typical to major types of large and small businesses regularly audited; methods and procedures used to examine, verify, and analyze financial and operating records, statements, and reports for tax purposes; City Charter provisions relating to City Business taxes; Business Tax Ordinance (Art. I, Ch. 2 L.A.M.C.), including requirements for and applicability of the various taxpayer classifications; policies and procedures of the Tax and Permit Division of the Office of Finance; significant court decisions and City Attorney opinions interpreting tax provisions of the City Charter and Municipal Code; City Clerk rulings relating to City taxes; professional and legal responsibilities and limitations of an auditor; basic mathematics; types and uses of forms and schedules in audit reports; tax reporting requirements and standards of the City of Los Angeles; indicators of approximate volume of business; regulations and conditions relating to the assessment of penalties and interest; the ability to: recognize circumstances visible in a business operation that indicate proper taxpayer classification; read and interpret complex written material such as business documents, Articles of Incorporation, business tax provisions of the Municipal Code, provisions of contracts, and other legal documents; plan, coordinate, and set priorities in own work; make comparison between observed conditions and similar situations or business to estimate volume of business of company being observed; evaluate indicators of business in absence of financial records; maintain attention to detail; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the qualifying written test, which will be held in a single half-day session in Los Angeles, on SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2017.

PASSING SCORE FOR THE QUALIFYING TEST

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score in the qualifying written test in order to be called for the interview. The examination score will be based entirely on the interview.

Your examination score will be based entirely on your professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and professional development as they demonstrate knowledge of: terminology typical to major types of large and small businesses regularly audited; methods and procedures used to examine, verify, and analyze financial and operating records, statements, and reports for tax purposes; policies and procedures of the Tax and Permit Division of the Office of Finance; business tax law as it affects the operation of commercial establishments; common reasons for differences between self-assessed taxes and audit findings; procedures for investigating secondary sources of information pertinent to the audit; supervisory principles and practices; City personnel policies, rules, and regulations relating to subordinate personnel including Memoranda of Understanding and grievance handling procedures; laws and regulations related to Equal Employment Opportunity; the ability to: recognize circumstances visible in a business operation that indicate proper taxpayer classification; business tax law as it affects the operation of commercial establishments; recognize related entities to businesses being audited; recognize discrepancies in financial and operating records; assess capabilities of subordinate personnel; make comparisons between observed conditions and similar situations or business to estimate volume of business of the company being observed; evaluate indicators of volume of business in absence of financial records; accurately assess own capabilities and/or deficiencies to determine when to seek advice; maintain objectivity; demonstrate initiative; maintain attention to detail; extract pertinent information from financial or operating records; work effectively when presented with unexpected difficulties or problems; work independently in performing and completing assignments; orally give and elicit pertinent information to taxpayer about proposed audits and about financial and operating records; explain complex ordinances, regulations, and policies in a manner that can easily be understood by the taxpayer; exercise tact, courtesy, and good judgment in dealing with taxpayers and their representatives or employees; communicate orally with taxpayers and members of one's own department, making an effective, logical, and convincing presentation of facts to support an action, decision, or method; work effectively with supervisors and co-workers; be persuasive; maintain fairness; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interviews, which will be held in Los Angeles. 

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
4. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion is required to be placed on the eligible list. 
5. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous City service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
6. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1519. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06-23-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

