SENIOR COMMERCIAL FIELD REPRESENTATIVE


Class Code:       1602
Open Date:  04-28-17
Revised: 05-11-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$68,110 to $84,626; $69,676 to $86,547; $71,326 to $88,593; $72,912 to $90,598; $74,395 to $92,435; and $75,857 to $94,252

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Senior Commercial Field Representative performs highly technical inspections of water and electric meters and service for compliance with Department of Water and Power rules and regulations; estimates and determines charges for unmetered water and electricity; independently performs difficult customer service-related work; communicates directly with customer to investigate and resolve disputes regarding electric and water service and explains the results of the investigation to the customer through multiple channels; investigates and records data relative to connected loads and rate classification; may investigate water and electric service irregularities, including facilities where illegal wiring, improper connections, or diversion of service is suspected or indicated; provides training and quality assurance; may supervise and work with, or assist in supervising, employees engaged in the field activities of the Department of Water and Power.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Commercial Field Representative or in a class at that level working in the field turning water or electric services on and off; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Meter Reader team leader responsible for overseeing the field activities of a group of Meter Readers.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience is met.
2. Applicants filing using City experience other than the City class of Commercial Field Representative must submit a Los Angeles "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form, which must indicate the percentage of time performing the work that is claimed as qualifying experience. This form may be obtained on-line at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verifywork.pdf. 
3. Applicants required to submit a VWE form may attach the completed form to their online application at the time of filing or will have seven (7) calendar days from the online submission date to email a copy of their completed VWE form, including the required signatures, to per.appdocs@lacity.org.  The subject line of your email must include the exam title, your name, and indicate it is a VWE. In the body of your email, you must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number, and contact phone number. Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
4. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
5. Upon appointment, a Senior Commercial Field Representative may be required to furnish an automobile, properly insured, for use in City service. Mileage and per diem will be paid in accordance with established rates.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 



NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 18, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
                                        Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying written test and an interview. In the qualifying written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: Department of Water and Power Meter Services and Field Operations Division rules, regulations, and procedures; electric and water rates, rules, and regulations; safety practices and procedures while working on electric meters and energized equipment; basic electric theory sufficient to work on energized circuits; electrical prefixes and meter IDs sufficient to identify size and types of service; overhead and underground electrical connections for meters sufficient to service connections and wiring circuits and investigate reported meter and wiring irregularities; transmission of water and electricity sufficient to trace service entry; electrical and water shut-off procedures; types of water services available to customers; hand and specialized tools and testing equipment; basic algebra and arithmetic sufficient to perform calculations and computations related to electrical and water rates and usage; supervisory principles and practices such as planning, delegating, evaluating, organizing, and directing; and the ability to safely operate an automobile; read and interpret written information relating to electrical and water services provided to customers; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the qualifying written test, which will be held in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, JULY 15, 2017 in Los Angeles.

Passing Score for Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligible on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years.  Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidate must achieve a passing score in the qualifying written test in order to be invited to the interview.

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of: Department  of Water and Power Meter Services and Field Operations Division rules, regulations, and procedures; electric and water rates, rules, and regulations; safety practices and procedures while working on electric meters and energized equipment; electrical and water diversion techniques and methods; billing procedures for electric and water usage; transmission of water and electricity sufficient to trace service entry; basic electric theory sufficient to work on energized circuits; overhead and underground electrical connections for meters sufficient to service connections and wiring circuits and investigate reported meter service and wiring irregularities; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity policies; supervisory principles and practices such as planning, delegating, evaluating, organizing, and directing; and the ability to work effectively and efficiently with minimal supervision; coordinate and prioritize work; exercise independent judgment in order to adapt to different situations and working conditions, including emergency situations; effectively and persuasively communicate orally on a one-to-one and one-to-group basis to provide information; courteously and tactfully interact with others; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.

NOTES:
		
1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% on the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY 
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 1602 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04-28-17 REV 05-11-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

