SENIOR UTILITY BUYER

  Class Code:      1862
Open Date: 05-25-18
 (Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$107,364 to $113,357 and $119,036 to $125,676

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
3. For information regarding reciprocity between City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Senior Utility Buyer performs, plans, organizes and directs the work of a group in the Supply Chain Services Division of the Department of Water and Power; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid experience as a Utility Buyer, or in a class which is at that level and which provides experience purchasing services, including processing Requests for Proposal.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. A valid certification as one of the following is desired, but not required:
a. Certified Purchasing Manager (C.P.M.) or Certified Professional in Supply Management (C.P.S.M.) issued by the Institute of Supply Management (formerly known as the National Association of Purchasing Management (N.A.P.M.); or
b. Certified Professional Contracts Manager (CPCM) issued by the National Contracts Management Association; or
c. Certified Public Purchasing Officer (CPPO) issued by the Universal Public Procurement Certification Council; or
d. Certified Professional Public Buyer (CPPB) issued by the Universal Public Procurement Certification Council.
4. To be at the level of Utility Buyer requires a four year degree from an accredited college or university and one year of full-time paid qualifying experience; or successful completion of 60 semester or 90 quarter units from an accredited college or university and three years of full-time paid qualifying experience; or 90 semester or 135 quarter units 
   from an accredited college or university and 2 years of full-time paid qualifying experience.
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
6. Applicants attempting to use experience gained outside of the City must list their qualifying education information such as the school name, location, type of degree, number of semester or quarter units, and completion dates in the Supplemental Question Section of the on-line application. Applicants who fail to do so will not be considered any further in this examination and their application will not be processed.
7. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree and/or coursework.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be submitted on-line by THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2018.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination score will be based entirely on an interview wherein candidates will be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background and personal qualifications and abilities. Emphasis will be placed on the following: Composure, Supervision, Fact Finding, Interpersonal Skills, Follows Oral Directions, Follows Written Directions, Shares Knowledge and Information, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: reference sources for locating specific City, State and Federal laws, ordinances, codes, and regulations such as City Charter Section 371, Chapter 1 of the Administrative Code, the State Public Contract Code, and the Uniform Commercial Code; Department regulations, procedures, and practices related to purchasing supplies, equipment, materials, or services; legal requirements for documentation of actions relating to purchasing supplies, equipment, materials, or services, soliciting bids, and awarding contracts; material such as user requests and specifications, management memos, reports of problems, and suppliers catalogs, used for purchasing supplies, equipment, materials, or services; and the ability to: review statement of works for missing information, restrictive requirements, and details related to the evaluation process; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/JobAnalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Senior Utility Buyer. 

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JULY 23, 2018 to AUGUST 3, 2018.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% or above is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protest as provided in 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1862 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05-25-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
	For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess	

