SENIOR INDUSTRIAL HYGIENIST
Class Code:      2331
Open Date: 02-23-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY 

$95,714 to $139,917
The salary range in the Department of Water and Power is $114,526 to $142,297.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Senior Industrial Hygienist plans, coordinates and implements an industrial hygiene program to reduce exposure to hazardous situations and protect employee health; evaluates work environments, identifies health hazards and recommends effective solutions and control measures; develops policies consistent with State and Federal laws and regulations governing occupational health and safety and environmental protection; and supervises professional staff engaged in above duties.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a bachelor's degree in Industrial Hygiene, Chemistry, Physics, Health Science (Public or Occupational), Biological Science, or related field; and EITHER #2 or #3 below.
2. Five years of full-time paid professional experience in the field of industrial hygiene; and a certificate as a "Certified Industrial Hygienist" (CIH) in the Comprehensive Practice of industrial hygiene, issued by the American Board of Industrial Hygiene; or
3. Eight years of full-time paid professional experience in the field of industrial hygiene and Certification as a "Certified Asbestos Consultant" (CAC) issued by the State of California, Department of Industrial Relations, Division of Occupational Safety and Health.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. A copy of the "Certified Industrial Hygienist" certificate must be attached to the application at the time of filing. 
4. Applicants must submit a valid Certified Industrial Hygienist certificate issued by the American Board of Industrial Hygiene. Applicants must attach a copy of the certificate to the online application at the time of filing. The certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the certificate. Applicants who fail to submit the certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.
5. As a condition of this class, employees may be required to work in hazardous environments. 
6. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position.  Therefore, to be considered "professional,"  non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
7. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency.  A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
8. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.


NOTE:
Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MARCH 8, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from February 23, 2018 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualification, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . Advisory
                                      Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the candidates knowledge of: industrial processes including equipment, materials, and environments; industrial hygiene including, chemical properties and handling and disposal of hazardous materials; pending and existing laws and standards related to industrial or public health hazards including Cal-OSHA Title 8 Permissible Exposure Levels and Code of Federal Regulations; fundamental supervisory principles and practices including directing, motivating, evaluating and disciplining; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures including Equal Employment Opportunity; and the ability to: plan, organize, direct, and supervise the development and implementation of a departmental industrial hygiene program; determine a work-exposure sampling strategy; operate and maintain equipment and instruments used to gather data; understand complex technical reports and reference materials; monitor several projects simultaneously; communicate orally and in writing in a clear, concise and effective manner; deal tactfully and effectively with a variety of individuals; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities. 

Prior to the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Senior Industrial Hygienist. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. The advisory essay will be administered online. Candidates invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to complete the online advisory essay, and will be required to do so by the date provided in the instructions sent to them via email. Candidates who fail to complete the online advisory essay may be disqualified. It is anticipated that the online advisory essay will be administered APRIL 9, 2018 to APRIL 16, 2018.

The interviews, which will be held in Los Angeles, are anticipated to begin during the period of MAY 7, 2018 to MAY 18, 2018. Candidates invited to participate in the interview will be required to self-schedule themselves for a specific date and time. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to self-schedule themselves, and will be required to do so by the date provided in the instructions sent to them via email. Candidates that do not self-schedule themselves within the required time will not be considered further in this examination.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
8. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. 
Class Code 2331 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .02-23-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to:  http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

