SENIOR STOREKEEPER

 Class Code:      1837
Open Date:  05-25-18
                                                                (Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$52,806 to $77,172 The salary range in the Department of Water and Power is $83,373 to $88,030; $86,526 to $91,350; $86,798 to $91,642; $90,285 to $95,317.

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Senior Storekeeper assigns, reviews and evaluates the work of Storekeepers and other employees engaged in storekeeping activities in a district store, a construction project store, or a large independent or specialized section of a general store; directs a smaller store serving a single large City department; may act as the assistant to a Principal Storekeeper; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force, and fulfills Equal Employment Opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid experience as a Storekeeper or in a class at least at that level supervising and working with employees engaged in storekeeping.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2018.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:	Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
	    Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying written test and an interview. In the qualifying written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: storekeeping methods and procedures for handling a wide variety of materials, supplies, tools and equipment; storekeeping methods, procedures, practices, terminology, standards and techniques, including methods for establishing and maintaining a perpetual inventory; common clerical procedures; data processing methods in order to furnish proper information for materials control; the principles and techniques of office policies and procedures to effectively administer and supervise; purchasing practices and procedures; laws and regulations related to equal employment opportunity; City and departmental safety principles and practices as well as CAL/OSHA (DOSH) rules and regulations as they relate to storekeeping; Civil Service rules, policies and procedures; supervisory principles, practices and techniques to effectively train, motivate and evaluate job performance of subordinates; and the ability to: do routine to moderately difficult clerical work; inspect materials, supplies, tools, and equipment for conformance to requisitioning and delivering documents or specifications; interpret parts catalogues, manuals, drawings and standard industry specifications; use e-mail and relevant software programs such as Microsoft Word and Excel; make routine arithmetic calculations; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

The qualifying written test will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, AUGUST 4, 2018 in Los Angeles. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test.

Passing Score for Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates who pass the written test will be invited to participate in the interview. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the candidate's experience, training and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of: storekeeping methods and procedures for handling a wide variety of materials, supplies, tools and equipment; storekeeping methods, procedures, practices, terminology, standards and techniques, including methods for establishing and maintaining a perpetual inventory; data processing methods; principles and techniques of office policies and procedures to effectively administer and supervise; purchasing practices and procedures; City and departmental budget practices and procedures; laws and regulations related to equal employment opportunity; City and departmental safety principles and practices as well as CAL OSHA (DOSH) rules and regulations as they related to storekeeping; Civil Service rules, policies and procedures; supervisory principles, practices and techniques to effectively train, motivate and evaluate job performance of subordinates; and the ability to: maintain records which reflect stock movement; inspect materials, supplies, tools, and equipment for conformance to requisitioning and delivering documents or specifications; determine stock levels; prepare specifications for the purchase of materials for warehouse stock; prepare material and activity reports and budget estimates; evaluate bids and make recommendations for the award of material and equipment contracts; communicate orally on a one-to-one basis for the purpose of giving instruction and obtaining and giving information; deal tactfully and effectively with subordinates, management, and the public; and other skills, knowledge, and abilities.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required in the interview portion of the examination to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1837 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5-25-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

