SENIOR LABOR RELATIONS SPECIALIST

Class Code:       9202
Open Date:  11-16-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$106,842 to $156,182; $112,438 to $164,388; and $128,328 to $187,648

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/documents/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions. 
3. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 

DUTIES

A Senior Labor Relations Specialist performs complex and sensitive labor relations activities, including negotiating Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) with unions representing City employees; administering the terms of the MOUs; and preparing analyses, proposals, reports, and correspondence in the field of labor relations; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience at the level of Personnel Analyst with the City of Los Angeles, performing labor relations activities, including negotiating and administering labor agreements, reviewing and responding to grievances, and serving as an advocate in administrative hearings; or
2. Graduation from an accredited four year college or university; and four years of full-time paid professional experience performing public sector labor relations activities, including negotiating and administering labor agreements, reviewing and responding to grievances, and serving as an advocate in administrative hearings.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Senior Labor Relations Specialist Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Senior Labor relations Specialist Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
5. For qualifying work experience in the term "professional experience" applies to positions that required possession of a degree from a four-year college or university in order to obtain the position. Therefore, to be considered "professional" qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Senior Labor Relations Specialist may be evaluated based on the candidate's responses to the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Senior Labor Relations Specialist based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of experience and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's training, background, and experience as they have provided the candidate knowledge of: laws, codes, legislation, court decisions, ERB decisions, regulations and standards regarding California public sector collective bargaining and labor relations activities; City personnel rules, regulations, policies and procedures, including the Personnel Procedures Manual, Civil Service Rules, Personnel Department Policies, the City Charter and the Administrative Code; techniques for representing the City's position during Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) negotiations; techniques for facilitating labor/management meetings and related problem resolution; standard computer software programs such as Microsoft Word, Excel, and PowerPoint; and the ability to research, analyze, and prepare collective bargaining positions and proposals for use in negotiations with employee unions; exercise appropriate judgment in answering questions and releasing information; analyze and project consequences of decisions and recommendations; analyze labor relations problems and recommend practical solutions; communicate effectively, both orally and in writing; establish effective working relationships with management, employees, and employee representatives; write clear, concise and persuasive reports involving the summary and analysis of information and the justification of controversial recommendations or findings; interact tactfully and effectively with elected officials, department representatives, and representatives of other public agencies; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

Additionally, the interview board will consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire in their overall evaluation of the candidates' qualifications. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date and time of the interview. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of JANUARY 21, 2019 to FEBRUARY 1, 2019.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. Appointees may be subject to weekend and evening work assignments.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
8. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
9. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidate's City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met. 
10. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice: 

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 9202 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-16-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

