SENIOR CUSTODIAN

Class Code:       3157
Open Date:  06-29-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$34,034 to $49,736 and $35,663 to $52,137 
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $63,913 to $67,484 
The salary in the Department of Los Angeles World Airports is $36,874 to $53,933

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per/lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_Dwp.pdf. 
3. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Senior Custodian assigns, reviews, and evaluates the work of Custodians engaged in a variety of cleaning and custodial tasks in City buildings; personally performs custodial duties including operating large autoscrubbers and other floor machines for floor care maintenance; and applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid custodial services experience with the City of Los Angeles; or
2. Three years of full-time paid custodial services experience which includes one year of full-time paid experience as a lead or supervisor of a crew engaged in custodial work.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Applicants filing under Requirement No. 1 using City of Los Angeles experience in a class other than Custodian must submit a "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form, which must indicate the percentage of time performing the work that is claimed as qualifying experience. The VWE form may be obtained on-line at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf. Applicants will have 7 calendar days from the on-line submission date to email a copy of their completed VWE form, with the required signatures, to per.appdocs@lacity.org. The subject line of your email must include the exam title, your name and indicate it is a VWE. In the body of your email, your must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number and contact phone number. Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed below:

Filing Period 1: From 8:00 am FRIDAY, JUNE 29, 2018 to 11:59 pm, THURSDAY, JULY 12, 2018
Filing Period 2: From 8:00 am FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2018 to 11:59 pm, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 13, 2018

The examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. Filing periods may change without prior notice or additional dates may be added, at a later date. For administrative purposes, filing may close and reopen on the dates noted in "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

In the written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, candidates may be examined for the knowledge of: cleaning methods, materials, chemicals, and disinfectants; use of a variety of custodial equipment including multi-purpose cleaning machines; inventory control; green cleaning standards; safety practices related to custodian work such as lifting, adjusting tools, using ladders, and fire prevention and control; work site security procedures; building equipment and machinery, including restroom facilities sufficient to ensure proper cleaning; supervisory principles and practices including assigning, delegating, instructing, and counseling; pertinent City and Personnel Department Rules including Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) and Equal Employment Opportunity in order to ensure that personnel matters are treated in accordance with City, State, and Federal fair employment guidelines; and the ability to: read and interpret labels, memoranda, and equipment operating manuals; interpret Safety Data Sheets for safe use of chemicals; interpret the Chemical Product Label for safe handling and mixing of chemicals; organize and plan sufficiently to monitor several activities simultaneously; train subordinate employees in work procedures through use of explanations, lectures, and demonstrations; maintain effective performance under pressure; interact professionally, tactfully, and effectively with managers, employees, and the public; communicate verbally and in writing in a clear, effective, concise, and logical manner; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

The first written test will be administered in a single half-day session on SEPTEMBER 15, 2018, in Los Angeles. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test. Additional test dates may be added as needed.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. Candidates may take the test only once every 365 days during the administration of the examination.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualification stated on this bulletin.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
7. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
8. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3157 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .06-29-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

