SHEET METAL SUPERVISOR
                                                                                                                                                 Class Code:       3777
Open Date:  06-13-14
ANNUAL SALARY 

$92,039 (flat-rated)
The salary ranges in the Department of Water and Power are $61,533 (flat-rated); $80,095 to $99,514; and $84,484 to $107,448.

NOTE:

For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Sheet Metal Supervisor supervises the fabrication, assembly, installation, and repair of a variety of sheet metal parts or equipment; and the maintenance, installation and adjustment or repair of duct work, filters, blowers and forced-air heating, cooling, and ventilating control devices and systems.

REQUIREMENT

Four years of full-time paid experience as a journey-level sheet metal worker.

NOTE: 

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Journey-level experience is defined as the possession of a journey level certificate or seven years of full-time experience in the sheet metal trade assisting a journey-level worker.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Exams. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JUNE 26, 2014.





SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of the practices, procedures, and materials used in the fabrication, assembly, installation and repair of a variety of articles made from sheet steel, galvanized iron, stainless steel, copper, aluminum, and other metal used in sheet metal work; the function, operation, and procedures for maintaining power and hand tools such as power and manually operated brakes, shears, punches, rolls, and bending machines; the functions, methods of installation, and procedures for the maintenance, adjustment, and servicing of heating, cooling, and ventilating systems; safety practices and procedures applicable to sheet metal work activities including those relating to the operation of power and hand tools such as soldering, riveting, spot welding, and working on ladders and scaffolds; the practices and procedures used in pattern development (drafting) including triangulation, radial line development, parallel line development and measurement as applied to the layout of a variety of articles made from metals; procedures used to estimate the amount of time and materials needed to complete job related to sheet metal work activities; laws and regulations relating to equal employment opportunities and City of Los Angeles personnel rules, policies, and procedures, including progressive discipline; ability to: coordinate, assign, and supervise employees; plan and coordinate sheet metal work with other crafts; resolve problems with subordinates due to poor attitudes and work practices; create an environment to promote quality work and high productivity; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified by mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of AUGUST 11, 2014 to AUGUST 23 2014.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
4. A final score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of candidates' City application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY 
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3777 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06-13-14

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

