


SIGN PAINTER
Class Code:       3428
Open Date:  12-12-14
ANNUAL SALARY

$72,766 (flat-rated)
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $67,630 to $84,042

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Sign Painter lays out and paints signs using freehand, stencils, computer, and silk screen methods on a variety of surfaces and materials, applying large vinyl cut graphics and related fabrication.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Completion of a recognized apprenticeship as a sign painter; or
2. Six years of full-time paid experience as a helper to a sign painter.

NOTES:

1. In addition to the online City application, each applicant is required to complete and submit an online Sign Painter Training and Experience Questionnaire at the time of filing.  The Sign Painter Training and Experience Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application.  Applicants who fail to complete the Training and Experience Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants lacking six months of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 must submit a copy of their apprenticeship certificate. The certificate must be attached to the online application at the time of filing. Attach the certificate to the online application BEFORE it's submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and you WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the certificate. Applicants who fail to submit this document at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.
4. Applicants filing under Requirement Number 2 must submit a City of Los Angeles Verification of Work Experience form (VWE), which must also indicate the percentage of time performing the work that is claimed as qualifying experience.  Verification of Work Experience forms may be obtained on-line at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf.  Applicants may attach the completed Verification of Work Experience form to their on-line application at the time of filing, or will have 7 calendar days from the submittal of their on-line application to submit the VWE form to the Personnel Department Building, 700 E. Temple Street, Room 100, Los Angeles, CA 90012.  Failure to provide this information within the required time will result in your disqualification from this examination.
5. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Training and Experience Questionnaires must be received by FRIDAY, DECEMBER 26, 2014.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight: Training and Experience Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of a Training and Experience Questionnaire.  In the Training and Experience Questionnaire, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: techniques of fine lettering and painting; silk screen and weeding processes; preparing various surfaces for vinyl installation; techniques used to apply scotchlite, reflective lettering, and vinyls; computer signage software; general sign making equipment, such as plotters, scanners, printers, and engravers; basic safety practices, such as proper use of chemicals, scaffolds, and ladders; and ability to perform skillful freehand lettering; lay out a large variety of signs on various types of surfaces; make and use silk screen stencils; understand and follow instructions and drawings; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credits at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that minimum qualifications have been met.


THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON AN 
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3428 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-12-14

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

