SIGNAL SYSTEMS SUPERINTENDENT

Class Code:       3832
Open Date:  11-04-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

 $92,707 to $131,919

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Signal Systems Superintendent directs, through subordinate supervisors, the construction, maintenance, and repair of traffic signals on a City-wide basis. An employee of this class determines general procedures within the framework of applicable laws and Department of Transportation regulations and policies. The work involves difficult scheduling and coordination problems. The work of the division occurs throughout the City, is often interrelated with the needs of other units, and is sometimes of an emergency nature. 

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as Signal Systems Supervisor, or in a class at that level which provides experience in supervising the installation, maintenance, and repair of electric or electronic traffic signal equipment. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be submitted online by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2016. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Evaluation of Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an assessment of the candidate's professional and personal qualifications by a training and experience evaluation. In the training and experience evaluation, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's experience, training and personal qualifications as they provide the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to supervise and give technical direction to a traffic signal systems unit, including knowledge of: types of traffic signal equipment and hardware; technical terminology and concepts in areas such as microprocessor electronics, light emitting diodes, vehicle detection and television viewing systems; advances in the field of traffic signal technology; Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices and sections of the Department of Transportation Manual of Policies and Procedures relevant to personnel, operations, and traffic signal design; time required to perform individual job tasks such as setting controllers, jacking boring pipe, pulling wires, and assembling or repairing cabinets; safety rules, regulations, and requirements, including Underground Service Alert (USA) requirements, Work Area Traffic Control Handbook (WATCH) manual safety requirements, Cal/OSHA regulations, and Department of Transportation safety rules; traffic control theory and design; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) policies and Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) as they apply to subordinate personnel; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending and evaluating the work of subordinates; and the ability to make judgments and decisions regarding the seriousness of reported problems; plan, direct, and coordinate the work of several divisions including maintenance, construction, and shop based repair; recommend the assignment of personnel to work crews; review job performance components in order to evaluate individuals and their work; identify employee training needs based on an evaluation of employee abilities, job requirements, initiation of new or revised policies or procedures, equipment, and safety practices and procedures; write job instructions; narrative reports, specifications, and justifications; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

The Training and Experience Questionnaires will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications as described on the candidate's Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the expert review panel. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the Training and Experience Questionnaire writing session, which will be administered in a single, half day session on SATURDAY, JANUARY 21, 2017, in Los Angeles. Candidates may anticipate being scheduled to a test location where PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their Training and Experience Questionnaire responses. 

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the City Charter.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. The seniority credit included in the final general average grade of each candidate will be computed at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of continuous service in those classes which provide qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of those candidates.
7. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
8. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment application by Personnel Department Staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3832 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-04-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

