SPECIAL INVESTIGATOR
     
     Class Code:        0602
     Open Date:   04-22-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY 

$64,665 to $94,502 and $83,373 to $121,897

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Special Investigator conducts highly complex and sensitive personnel, financial, and administrative investigations; reviews and analyzes evidence which may involve violation of City policies, or of laws which may involve misconduct, possibly criminal in nature, by City employees; reviews complaint investigations; secures facts and develops evidence from all sources to establish the extent and nature of violations being investigated; and conducts risk assessments of potential fraud, data-mining probes of potential waste/abuse of City resources, and investigative interviews of witnesses, informants, suspects, custodians of records, and public and private persons at all levels.

REQUIREMENT 

Three years of full-time paid experience conducting investigations in the following areas: employment law, policies, and practices; or community advocacy; or alleged fraud, waste or misuse.

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application supplemental questions, each applicant is required to complete the Special Investigator Training and Experience Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Special Investigator Training and Experience Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Training and Experience Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed. 
2. Graduation from a college or university with a degree in public policy, journalism, or other related field is highly desired.
3. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license.  Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
	
WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and Training and Experience Questionnaires will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be completed at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Training and Experience Questionnaires must be received on-line by THURSDAY, MAY 5, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be evaluated on their training and experience in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from April 22, 2016, in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS 

Examination Weight:  Evaluation of Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of an evaluation of training and experience, wherein candidates will be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background and personal qualifications and abilities. Emphasis will be placed on the following: judgment and decision making, analytical ability, objectivity, tact, credibility, written communication, job knowledge including knowledge of techniques and policies pertaining to maintaining confidentiality of testimony and evidence such as City record retention policies; fact finding including: proper investigative techniques and procedures for identifying and obtaining evidence such as document review, investigative interviews, and surveillance in order to conduct comprehensive investigations involving City employees, officers, vendors, or contractors in a manner that complies with applicable local, state, and federal laws, rules and regulations; interviewing techniques and strategies for gathering information, assessing the credibility of a witness and/or the quality of witness statements; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/JobAnalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Special Investigator.

Training and Experience Questionnaires and City employment applications for all candidates meeting the minimum requirements will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation.  The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the candidate's City application and Training and Experience Questionnaire.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidate's employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that minimum requirements are met.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code: 0602 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04-22-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

