 STAFF ASSISTANT TO GENERAL MANAGER WATER AND POWER
Class Code:      9185
Open Date: 03-27-15
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
	
ANNUAL SALARY 

$144,218 to $179,171	

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per/lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_Dwp.pdf. 
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
	
DUTIES

A Staff Assistant to General Manager Water and Power reviews and analyzes Department expenditure programs, rates revenues, and costs; makes recommendations on the development of financial and budgetary planning and policies; advises management on financial and budgetary and personnel matters; may plan, organize and direct the work of staff engaged in such activities; and does related work.
  
REQUIREMENTS
  
1. Current full-time paid employment with the City of Los Angeles; and 
2. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university and three years of full-time paid project management experience in a position at the level of a Utility Administrator III supervising professional staff responsible for work in one of the following areas: engineering, information technology, human resources, operating and capital budget planning and preparation, organizational development, strategic planning and workforce development, or utilities marketing.

NOTES:	

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
4. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying four-year degree.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL 09, 2015.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from March 27, 2015 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Assessment of Training and Experience  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of training and experience, wherein candidates may be evaluated on their experience, professional background and personal qualification as they have provided the necessary skills, knowledge of principles, practices, and techniques applicable to the management and administration of a large business organization, including strategic planning, finance, contracting, and personnel management responsibilities; methods and procedures used to examine, validate, and analyze data and other information; the ability to analyze and evaluate operations to align business objectives, requirements, and associated performance measurements; prepare concise and comprehensive written material tailored to the appropriate audience; communicate in a clear and effective manner; deal tactfully and effectively with executive management, employees, the public, labor organizations and elected and appointed officials; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

The Training and Experience Questionnaire will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, MAY 16, 2015 in Los Angeles. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the test. Candidates may anticipate being scheduled to a test location where PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their Training and Experience Questionnaire responses.

Training and Experience Questionnaires of all candidates will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the candidate's Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the review panel.

NOTES:
	
1. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained athttp://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter. 
4. Promotional candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those classes that provide qualifying experience for this position. A maximum of one point will be added to the score of the candidate. 
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis. 
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
8. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
9. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure minimum qualifications have been met. 

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 9185 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03-27-15

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

