STEAM PLANT MAINTENANCE MECHANIC

Class Code:      5630
Open Date:  09-02-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $97,092 (flat-rated).

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Steam Plant Maintenance Mechanic repairs, overhauls, and maintains high pressure, high temperature boilers, heat recovery steam generators (HRSG), steam turbines, gas turbines, and auxiliary equipment found in a large steam electric generating station.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Three years of full-time paid experience as a Steam Plant Assistant with the City of Los Angeles, one year of which must be as an Assistant Maintenance Mechanic or Controls Mechanic working on the maintenance, repair and overhaul of equipment at a large steam electric generating station.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. In addition to the regular City application, applicants using the City experience must submit the "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form, signed by their supervisor, verifying their maintenance, repair, and overhaul of equipment experience. The VWE form may be obtained on-line http://per.lacity.org/exams/verifywork.pdf. Candidates may attach the completed Verification of Work Experience (VWE) form to their online application at the time of filling, or will have 7 calendar days from the submittal of their on-line application to submit the VWE form to the Personnel Department Building, 700 E. Temple Street, Room 100, Los Angeles, CA 90012. Failure to provide this information within the required time will result in your disqualification from this examination.
3. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The written test will consist entirely of a multiple-choice written test in which candidates may be examined for knowledge of: components, maintenance and functions of boilers, boiler tubes, heat recovery steam generators, steam turbines, gas turbines, valves, pumps, high pressure feed water heaters, steam turbine condensers and heat exchangers sufficient to disassemble and assemble equipment for purposes of inspection, maintenance and repair; materials and tools used in the inspection, maintenance and repair of steam electric generating plant equipment, machinery and buildings; symptoms of malfunctioning machinery sufficient to diagnose problems, troubleshoot, make necessary repairs, and prevent damage; potential hazards, safety gear, devices, equipment and safety precautions necessary when working near steam plant equipment and in confined spaces; safety rules and regulations including California Safety orders and departmental operating orders; California Vehicle Code and Department of Water and Power regulations relating to the safe operation of vehicles; hand signals as defined by Department of Water and Power regulations and State laws sufficient to safely direct mobile equipment; manual and mechanical rigging equipment and scaffolding; Safety Data Sheets (SDS) and their use; and the ability to perform basic arithmetic calculations; follow written instructions; read and interpret sketches, blueprints, and job instruction checklists; work effectively with others; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2016, in Los Angeles. 

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
3. Based on City policy, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. 
Class Code 5630. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09-02-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER



AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

