STOREKEEPER
Class Code:       1835
Open Date:  05-11-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY
 
$45,309 to $66,231 and $46,374 to $67,818
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $55,540 to $69,008; $57,942 to $71,973; $63,099 to $78,383; $65,980 to $81,954; $79,406 to $83,833.

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. For information regarding reciprocity between City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Storekeeper assigns, reviews and evaluates the work of a small group of employees engaged in ordering, receiving, inspecting, storing, issuing, securing and accounting for materials, supplies, automotive parts, records, tools and equipment and performs related minor repair and assembly work; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Warehouse and Toolroom Worker with the City of Los Angeles; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience in a class at the level of Warehouse and Toolroom Worker which includes all of the following activities:  ordering, receiving, inspecting, storing, issuing, securing and accounting for each of the following categories:  materials, supplies, tools, and equipment.  

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement has been completed. 
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 must provide detailed information in the work experience section of the application concerning all of the seven required activities for each of the four required categories. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter. 


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 24, 2018.




In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a 
promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filling period will be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Written Test  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying  
		                         Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying written test and interview. In the qualifying written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: storekeeping methods and procedures for handling a variety of materials, supplies, tools, equipment, and records; operating characteristics of material handling equipment and their capacities and limitations; standard abbreviations used in shipping, weights and measurements; methods of inspecting materials and comparing items to requisition documents; shelf life of a variety of perishable materials; warehousing practices for determining efficient storage; inventory systems, including periodic, perpetual, and physical; clerical procedures such as filing and record keeping; safety principles and practices, including Cal/OSHA rules and regulations related to the handling and storage of hazardous materials, and completing Safety Data Sheets (SDS); fundamental principles and practices of supervision including directing, assigning, motivating, training, disciplining, counseling, commending, and evaluating employees; basic math including addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, fractions, decimals and percentages, and measurement conversions; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

The qualifying written test will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, JULY 14, 2018, in Los Angeles. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test. 

Passing Score for the Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying multiple-choice test in order to be scheduled for the interview. 

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of: storekeeping methods and procedures for handling a variety of materials, supplies, tools, equipment, and records; methods of inspecting materials and comparing items to requisition documents; how to properly establish and maintain an updated inventory; shelf life of a variety of perishable materials; inventory systems, including periodic, perpetual, and physical; computer software such as Microsoft Office sufficient to prepare reports and enter data; basic understanding of supervisory principles and practices needed to effectively assign, train, motivate, and evaluate a group of employees; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures including Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) responsibilities; and the ability to: evaluate the accuracy of completed work; deal tactfully and effectively with subordinates, management, the public, customers, and vendors; communicate orally on a one-to-one basis in order to give or obtain information, explain procedures, policies, and methods of performing tasks; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applicants are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis. 
5. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion is required to be placed on the eligible list. 
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after candidates receive a higher score, without military credit, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of continuous service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
7. Based on City Policy, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class. 

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.


THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1835 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05-11-18


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to:  http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


