STREET SERVICES SUPERVISOR
Class Code:       4152
Open Date:  08-28-2015
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$71,409 to $88,719 and $75,710 to $94,043

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the city of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.


DUTIES

A Street Services Supervisor assigns, reviews, and evaluates the work of one or more crews engaged in repairing, patching, cleaning, remodeling, resurfacing, or reconstructing City streets; and/or slurry seal and Portland Cement Concrete construction, or assists in coordinating the work of street resurfacing crews; or scheduling and dispatching transportation of materials and plant mixes, construction materials and debris transfer equipment; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS

Four years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles in a class at the level of Maintenance and Construction Helper in street maintenance field operations, street construction or reconstruction, appurtenant remodeling, street resurfacing, street repair, street enforcement and inspection, construction inspection, lot or street cleaning, or urban forestry.

Successful completion of the Los Angeles Trade Technical College (LATTC) Street Maintenance Technology program may be substituted for two years of the required experience.

NOTES:

1.	Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2.	Applicants must attach a copy of the certificate of completion from the Los Angeles Trade Technical College to the online application at the time of filing. The certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the license and/or certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the license and/or certificate. Applicants who fail to submit the license and/or certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered for the Selective Certification.
3.	A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations.

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be completed at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2015.


SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
                                        Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%


The qualifying written test will consist of multiple-choice questions and may cover knowledge of: the methods, procedures and standards used in the repair, maintenance and reconstruction of streets, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, alleys, and appurtenant structures; the methods, procedures, and standards used in street cleaning and disposal of debris collected by street maintenance crews; the use and routing of trucks and equipment used in street maintenance; the various causes of pavement defects; supervisory principles and practices; measures required to protect workers and the public during street maintenance operations; minor maintenance requirements of trucks and equipment used in street maintenance; the dispatching of trucks and equipment used in street maintenance; and the ability to plan, organize and lay out work for effective use of crews and equipment engaged in various phases of street maintenance; keep  accurate records and prepare written reports and to do routine to moderately difficult clerical work; evaluate completed projects to determine compliance with written and/or oral instructions; make routine mathematical calculations; supervise employees engaged in street services activities at various locations; and other necessary knowledge, skills and abilities.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time and location of the qualifying written test, which will consist of a single, half-day session on SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2015 in Los Angeles.

Passing Score for the Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying multiple-choice test in order to be scheduled for the interview. 

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and personal qualifications as they provide the knowledge of: supervisory principles and practices; the ability to deal tactfully and effectively with employees and the public through oral communications, either on a one-on-one or group basis; respond to public inquiries via social media; generate and report performance data; plan, organize and lay out work for the use of crews and equipment engaged in various phases of street maintenance; and other necessary knowledge, skills and abilities.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.  This score will be based on each candidate's performance on the interview.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Candidates filing on a promotional basis will have seniority credits added to their examination grade at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 4152. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .08-28-15


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

