STREET LIGHTING CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE SUPERINTENDENT

	Class Code:       3820
Open Date:  05-18-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$91,558 to $133,882 and $102,082 to $149,229

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 

DUTIES

Oversees a major division of the Bureau of Street Lighting that is responsible for the implementation of the Light-Emitting Diode (LED) conversion program, the systems conversion program, new construction projects and the maintenance and repair of the entire City's street lighting system.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Four years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Street Lighting Electrician Supervisor.

PROCESS NOTE

A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three of moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 31, 2018.




SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of an evaluation of the candidate's qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and professional development as they demonstrate the knowledge of: methods, processes, tools, equipment, and materials used in the construction and repair of electrolier street lighting systems; State and City laws and regulations relating to safety principles and practices, including safety devices necessary in working on street lighting systems and in proximity to energizing circuits and equipment; the practical application of the principles of electricity to the circuits and equipment used in the construction, reconstruction and maintenance of electrolier street lighting systems; City personnel rules, policies and procedures including Memoranda of Understanding as they apply to subordinate personnel; and the ability to: apply sound supervisory methods, principles and techniques; determine personnel, equipment, and material requirements as well as plan, direct, and evaluate the work of several crews; accurately assess situations with minimal guidance and respond to a wide range of complex situations using sound judgment and decision making skills; deal tactfully and effectively with subordinates, City officials, other government and private agencies, and the public; and other necessary knowledge, skills and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date and time of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of JULY 9, 2018 to JULY 20, 2018.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period under the provisions of Charter Section 1011.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. Candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those City classes which provide qualifying experience for this position. A maximum of one point will be added to the score of the candidate.  
6. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3820 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  05-18-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


