SUPERVISING OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH NURSE     Class Code:       2315
                                                                                                     Open Date:  11-14-14

ANNUAL SALARY 

$65,417 to $81,285  
The salary range for the position in the Department of Water and Power is $72,474 to $90,055. 

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Supervising Occupational Health Nurse assigns, reviews and evaluates the work of Occupational Health Nurses, Medical Technicians and other employees engaged in all aspects of occupational health; assists in planning and implementing occupational health programs; monitors work processes and makes changes based on quality service reviews; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS

1. A valid Registered Nurse License issued by the California Board of Nursing Education and Nurse Registration; and
2. Two years of full-time paid experience as an Occupational Health Nurse or in a class which is at least at that level in professional nursing; and
3. Possession of a current, valid American Heart Association Healthcare Provider CPR card.

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application form, each applicant is required to submit the Supervising Occupational Health Nurse Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Supervising Occupational Health Nurse Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full educational requirement is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license.  Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. At the time of filing, applicants must list their Registered Nurse License number and the expiration date of their American Heart Association Healthcare Provider CPR card in the appropriate boxes on the application.
5. At the time of appointment, candidates must submit verification of their current, valid American Heart Associate Healthcare Provider CPR card.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted online. When you are viewing the online job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. Online job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2014.



In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from November 14, 2014 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

EXPERT REVIEW COMMITTEE

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, an Expert Review Committee may be assembled to evaluate each candidate's qualifications for the position of Supervising Occupational Health Nurse. In this evaluation, the Expert Review Committee will assess each candidate's training and experience based on the information in the candidate's City employment application and the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered by the Expert Review Committee as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Supervising Occupational Health Nurse, based solely on the information presented to the committee, will be invited to participate in the interview.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's experience, training, and professional qualifications, including knowledge of: professional nursing theories and practices; safety principles and practices and OSHA regulations; supervisory principles and practices, including training and discipline, planning, delegating, controlling, and evaluating the work of subordinate personnel; and pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity; and the ability to operate medical equipment in an occupational health clinic; supervise and instruct a group of subordinates in occupational health principles, techniques, and procedures; direct and coordinate the work of groups of employees engaged in a variety of occupational health activities; establish and maintain a work environment that enhances employee morale and productivity; communicate technical and job-related information effectively; deal tactfully and effectively with applicants, other City employees, and the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.    

Additionally, the interview board members will consider the information in the candidates' Qualifications Questionnaire in their overall evaluation of the candidates' qualifications.  Candidates may expect the interviewers to discuss the information on their Qualifications Questionnaire with them during the interview.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JANUARY 12, 2015 to JANUARY 23, 2015.

NOTES:	

1. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of candidates' City application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
2. TTThe promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. Verified volunteer experience equivalent to that required by this bulletin is acceptable.  Verification must be provided by the applicant.

NOTICE:  If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.


Class Code 2315. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-14-14

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

