SURVEY PARTY CHIEF  
                                           
Class Code:       7286
Open Date:  09-30-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$72,621 to $106,175; $94,524 to $114,297
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $89,282 to $121,229

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Survey Party Chief assigns, reviews, and evaluates the work of Land Surveying Assistants and Field Engineering Aides in survey parties engaged in making preliminary, construction, property, topographic, hydrographic, photogrammetric, global positioning system, and geodetic surveys and in keeping notes and records of such surveys; may perform global positioning system and/or geodetic calculations in the office, and research survey data from record sources and other survey calculations; interprets and writes legal descriptions and applies sound boundary control principles; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining a safe and effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid experience as a member of a land survey party at the level of Land Surveying Assistant.

PROCESS NOTES
 
1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete a Survey Party Chief Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Survey Party Chief Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Survey Party Chief Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. A Land Surveyor in Training (LSIT) certificate is desired, but not required.
3. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the final experience requirement is met.
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:


Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2016. 


SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Essay. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
		            Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%
		
The examination score will be based entirely on the interview wherein candidates may be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background, personal qualifications and abilities, including knowledge of: the purpose, capabilities, and procedures for setting up, taking measurements, and using various survey instruments;  survey calculations including error of closure adjustments, trigonometric leveling, calculating curves and grades, traverse closures and networks; effects of atmospheric and environmental conditions on instrument reading, how to correct readings affected by atmospheric and environmental conditions; the California Coordinate system; differential leveling; government Public Land Surveys; principles and practices of conducting control line surveys, topographic surveys and construction surveys; safety principles and practices including CAL/OSHA; purpose and use of survey safety equipment; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including directing, coordinating, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending and evaluating the work of subordinates; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity and Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) pertinent to subordinate personnel; and the ability to communicate orally for the purpose of providing and gathering information in an effective manner; deal tactfully with others in a variety of situations involving disagreements and interpersonal problems; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be required to prepare some written material on a topic related to the duties and responsibilities of a Survey Party Chief. This essay material will not be scored separately, but will be presented to the interview panel for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory essay may be disqualified. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their advisory essay responses. In addition, as part of the evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will also consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview panel.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of DECEMBER 5, 2016 to DECEMBER 16, 2016.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 

	THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code:  7286. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09-30-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER



