TITLE EXAMINER
Class Code:       1943
Open Date:  03-23-18
Revised: 04-05-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$56,793 to $80,826
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $75,648 to $93,980 and $80,722 to $100,307.

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the beginning of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
3. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Title Examiner searches and examines public and title company records to determine ownership and interests in real property and prepares abstracts and reports.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid experience in searching, abstracting and examining titles, and writing title reports to real property, including the use of all facilities of a complete title plant, one year of which was in the examining of titles. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Title Examiner Qualifications Questionnaire and the Training and Experience Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Title Examiner Qualifications Questionnaire and the Training and Experience Questionnaire are both located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Title Examiner Qualifications Questionnaire and the Training and Experience Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as a DUI). 
4. Applicants must specify their experience in examining titles, list all of the facilities of a complete title plant they have used, and the names of the complete title plant(s) used in meeting these requirements in the Supplemental Questions section of their on-line application.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications, Qualifications Questionnaires, and Training and Experience Questionnaires will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications, Qualifications Questionnaires, and Training and Experience Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will have their Training and Experience Questionnaire evaluated in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from March 23, 2018 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW 

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Title Examiner may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Title Examiner, based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review, will continue in the selection process.


SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 and the qualifications review as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Training and Experience Evaluation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of training and experience, wherein candidates will be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background and personal qualifications and abilities. The training and experience evaluation will consist of questions in which the following competencies may be evaluated: reading comprehension; judgment and decision making; initiative; attention to detail; fact finding; customer service; written communication; and job knowledge, including knowledge of: the types of records used for title searches sufficient to find and use them in confirming accuracy of or making corrections to previous records; various deeds, real estate documents and other records such as tax or assessment records, corporate records, and limited liability companies sufficient to use data from such documents to establish clear chains of ownership of real property and to identify individual owners; laws relating to acquisition or sale of property sufficient to transfer ownership of real property in accordance with legal requirements; legal descriptions of real estate parcels to prepare accurate title reports of a parcel and/or to write or verify correct legal descriptions from such legal documents; Microsoft Office sufficient to complete forms used for work records; and basic algebra and geometry sufficient to verify quantities as lengths of lot boundaries, areas of lots, and to determine fractional interests in real estate.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/JobAnalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Title Examiner.

Training and Experience Questionnaires for all candidates who meet the requirements and are processed under Rule 4.2 and the Qualifications Review as noted above will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation.  The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications as described on the candidate's Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the expert review panel. 

NOTES:	

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
5. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered open candidates.
6. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department 
may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code: 1943. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  03-23-18 REV 04-05-18


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to:  http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess



