TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERING AIDE
 
 Class Code:      7285
 Open Date:  10-09-15
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$49,255 to $72,036 and $55,164 to $80,638

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list normally are appointed only to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Transportation Engineering Aide performs moderately difficult sub-professional traffic engineering work associated with making studies and analyses of traffic control and parking problems; inspects work by traffic crews which are installing or modifying traffic control devices; and may supervise employees engaged in such activities.

REQUIREMENT

1. Successful completion of any two of the following three categories:
a. One year of high school or college level algebra; or
b. One course at either the high school or college level in one of the following:
			Introduction to Engineering
			Engineering Graphics and Design
			Engineering Drawing
			Drafting
			Surveying; or
c. Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles installing or inspecting traffic devices, maintaining parking meters and/or pavement markings, or enforcing parking regulations, or conducting traffic counts or traffic engineering surveys and studies.

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Applicants qualifying under Requirement number 1a or number 1b must list pertinent courses, units, dates, and schools in the appropriate box (Special Courses Required) on the application.  

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top 
of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations. 
NOTES:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be submitted on-line by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2015.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%
 
The examination score will be based entirely on a multiple choice written test in which candidates may be examined for knowledge of:  Los Angeles Municipal Code (Charter 8) pertaining to traffic engineering sufficient to ensure compliance; departmental procedures pertaining to traffic control sufficient to inspect and ensure proper installation of traffic control devices and respond to or investigate complaints; California Motor Vehicle Code and federal guidelines, policies and procedures pertaining to traffic control sufficient to inspect traffic control devices and conduct surveys; drafting tools and techniques sufficient to perform basic drafting; traffic survey terms, principals and techniques sufficient to effectively conduct traffic surveys; basic principles and uses of a computer sufficient to learn training on computer operation; basic arithmetic such as addition, subtraction, multiplication and division of whole numbers, fractions and decimals sufficient to perform basic calculations; algebra sufficient to make calculations for surveys and scale drawings; and the ability to: draw condition sketches and diagrams sufficient to convey street conditions or describe traffic accidents; present technical information in written form that can be readily understood by laymen in order to respond to complaints and requests for information or update information; communicate orally on a one-to-one basis in order to obtain information and explain procedures, policies and methods of performing tasks and counseling; drive a vehicle in order to make trips to the field; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be held in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, DECEMBER 19, 2015 in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3.   Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 7285. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-09-15

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

