TRANSPORTATION INVESTIGATOR

Class Code:       4271
Open Date:  06-10-16
			 	                                      (Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$55,019 to $80,472 (effective June 26, 2016)

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Higher salaries are paid for night work.

DUTIES

A Transportation Investigator makes investigations which may include the inspection of vehicles and other operating property, the interviewing of witnesses, complainants, or company personnel; makes arrests when essential to enforcement; processes permit applications; conducts administrative disciplinary hearings for drivers cited for violations; issues citations or hearing notices; and collects fees in enforcing public utility regulations or franchise provisions for the City of Los Angeles.  An employee in this class may be required to work various hours, shifts, and locations.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience in the enforcement of laws or regulations, conducting inspections or investigations, or managing complaints pertaining to Municipal, State, or Federal codes, regulations, or laws.
2. Successful completion of twenty four semester or thirty six quarter units in Criminal Justice courses at an accredited college or university may be substituted for one year of the experience lacking.

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
3. Possession of a California Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training (P.O.S.T.) Penal Code Section 832 Certificate (Laws of Arrest, Search, and Seizure) will be required prior to completion of a six-month probation. 
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.



WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JUNE 23, 2016.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a weighted written test. In the weighted written test, which will consist of multiple choice questions, the following competencies may be evaluated: reading comprehension, mathematics, judgment and decision making, attention to detail, fact finding, interpersonal skills, written communication, and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/jobanalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Transportation Investigator.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, AUGUST 20, 2016, in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a                                                      promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 4271 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06-10-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

