TREASURY ACCOUNTANT

                                                                                                      Class Code:      1609
	                                                                                                   Open Date:  10-28-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
                                 
ANNUAL SALARY

$59,904 to $87,591 and $75,000 to $109,640

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Treasury Accountant performs professional treasury/banking accounting work in the analysis, preparation, maintenance, or evaluation of financial reports, account reconciliation, debt management, investment accounting, and general accounting of City treasury funds, and commercial, custodial and merchant accounts, within the Office of Finance and may act as a lead in the performance of such work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a bachelor's or a master's degree in accounting, finance, economics, or business administration; and 
2. Three years of full-time paid professional experience in treasury operations, banking, or finance accounting activities, in any of the following areas:  investment accounting, escrow services, assessment district accounting, structured finance reporting, monitoring investment and debt activity, effectuating payment of debt service, escheatment processing, cost accounting, cost allocation, cash management and cash flow analysis.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. For qualifying experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position.  Therefore, to be considered "professional", non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
3. Certification from the California State Board of Accountancy as a Certified Public Accountant is desired, but not required.
4. In addition to the regular City application form, each candidate is required to submit the on-line Treasury Accountant Training and Experience Questionnaire. The Treasury Accountant Training and Experience Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Treasury Accountant Training and Experience Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
5. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations. 

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
1. 
2. All application materials must be completed at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination. 


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Training and Experience Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will have their Training and Experience Questionnaire evaluated in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from October 28, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.
  
SELELCTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Assessment of Training and Experience Questionnaire. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of an evaluation of training and experience, wherein candidates will be evaluated on their experience, professional background, and personal qualifications as they have provided the necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities to perform the duties of a Treasury Accountant as it relates to: Analytical Ability, Attention to Detail, Self Management, Teamwork, Written Communication, Process Improvement, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of:  the theory and practice of governmental and private sector accounting; cost accounting methods and procedures sufficient to perform cost allocation; the application of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), General Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS), and pronouncements of the Governmental Accounting Standards Board  (GASB) and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB); auditing and internal controls principles and practices; principles and practices of financial administration, including budget preparation and control; the analysis, development and implementation of accounting systems and procedures for system conversion and implementation; investment accounting and procedures, bond accounting, bond interest calculation, and the analysis of transactions relating to the purchase and sale of securities; procedures for preparing and analyzing routine financial documents, statements and reports; computer systems used to verify, reconcile and interpret accounting and financial records; spreadsheet databases such as Microsoft Excel sufficient to perform various calculations; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Treasury Accountant.

The Training and Experience Questionnaire and City employment applications of all candidates will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications as described on the Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the expert review panel. 

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study. 
2. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter. 
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin. 
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list. 
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE:
 
If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. 
Class Code 1609 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10-14-11

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

Class Code 1609 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-28-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

