TREE SURGEON

Class Code:      3114
Open Date:  08-19-16
REVISED: 08-08-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY
          
$47,898 to $70,052 
The salary range for positions in the Department of Water and Power is $72,328 to $89,864

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Tree Surgeon climbs, prunes, trims, treats, sprays, plants, fertilizes, transplants and removes trees along City streets and highways, in City parks, over or on private property, and on public grounds to eliminate hazardous conditions; prevent interference with traffic, traffic signals and high and low voltage conductors and equipment; and to preserve and maintain the trees.
 
REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. One year of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Tree Surgeon Assistant or in a class at that level performing tree trimming or treatment work; or
2. One year of full-time paid experience as a tree surgeon, which includes climbing trees using spurs, climbers, ropes and safety belts and using power saws, aerial lifts, power winches, booms or similar equipment.

PROCESS NOTES

1. A valid California Class B driver's license and valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles are required for all positions either prior to the appointment or prior to the end of probation. Some positions may require the license and certificate prior to the appointment, while other positions may require the license and certificate to be obtained prior to completion of the six-month probation period.  Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). Candidates will be asked to submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVS 1808.1.
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #1, who are using their City of Los Angeles experience gained while working at the level of a Tree Surgeon Assistant, must submit with their application a City of Los Angeles "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form with the required signatures, verifying their experience performing tree trimming or treatment work.  The VWE form should indicate the type of work performed and the amount of time spent performing such work.  The VWE form may be obtained on-line at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf.  Applicants may attach the completed VWE form to their on-line application at the time of filing or will have seven (7) calendar days from the online submission date to email a copy of their completed VWE form, including the required signatures to: per.appdocs@lacity.org.  The subject line of your email must include the exam title, your name and indicate it is a VWE. In the body of your email, you must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number and contact phone number.   Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
3. Possession of a current International Society of Arboriculture (ISA) Tree Worker Certificate is highly desirable but not required.
4. Achievement of a qualifying score on the optional written test for high voltage line clearance work is required if you wish to be considered for such positions with the Department of Water and Power. 

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION:	

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions in the Department of Water and Power that require a minimum of 18 months related to training and on-the-job experience and knowledge of special techniques and hazards involved in line clearance tree trimming operations.  Candidates will be considered in the order of standing on the eligible list to fill such positions. Only those persons who meet the additional requirements stated below may be considered for appointment to fill such positions by the Department of Water and Power:

1. "Qualified Line Clearance Tree Trimmer" certification is required at the time of filing. 
2. The copy of the Certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the Certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit a copy of their certification within the time required will not be considered further for positions involving high voltage line clearance work and will not be scheduled for the optional high voltage line clearance multiple-choice written test.
 

NOTES:

1. Selective certification requires a passing score on a written multiple-choice skills assessment test. Candidates will be required to take the skills assessment test after the performance test. The written multiple-choice skills assessment test will be held in a single half-day session in Los Angeles. Candidates will be notified later by email of the date, time, and location of the multiple-choice written test. Further details will be forthcoming pertaining to the scheduling of the test. 
2. If you wish to be considered for positions involving high voltage line clearance work, you must take and pass the written multiple-choice skills assessment test.  If you do not wish to be considered for those positions, you do not have to take the written multiple-choice skills assessment test.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin. Applications submitted before the start of the filing period will not be accepted. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed below: 

From 8:00 am Tuesday, November 13, 2018 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, November 15, 2018

The examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. Filing periods may change without prior notice or additional dates may be added, as needed, at a later date. For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen on the dates noted in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the performance test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates.  Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.


SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight: Performance Test. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%
	                              
The examination will consist entirely of a performance test.  In the performance test, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's knowledge of: tree trimming and removal procedures; safety practices and procedures; tools and equipment used in tree work and the proper maintenance of these tools; and the ability to observe, inspect and evaluate a tree in order to determine the proper method to be used to climb the tree, and use the appropriate method of rigging to remove branches from trees; to identify potentially hazardous situations caused by insects, rodents, poison oak, animals or pets in order to take precautionary actions to remedy these hazards; climb trees by various methods; tie various types of knots in rope; communicate job related information to co-workers and supervisors; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time and location of the performance test, and will be emailed additional information regarding the performance test. The performance test will be held in Los Angeles.

Safety Information

1. A harness will be provided by the City. However, candidates who wish to do so may bring their own harness, provided it is an approved tree climbing saddle.
2.   In the performance test, candidates will be required to demonstrate, while on the ground, the ability to tie various knots and hitches.  If candidates are unable to tie the required knots and hitches properly in two attempts, they will not be permitted to continue and will have failed the performance test.  This is done for the candidate's personal safety. Candidates who tie the knots properly will be required to enter the tree and demonstrate working methods, as well as demonstrating other knots used in tree work.  Candidates are required to wear boots proper for climbing a rope.  No other shoes will be allowed.  Candidates who cannot make this climb satisfactorily in two attempts will have failed the performance test.

NOTES:

1. You may take this examination only once every 365 days. Your name may be removed from the employment list after 365 days. If you have taken the Tree Surgeon test within the last 12 months, you may not file for this examination at this time. 
2. This examination is based on a validation study.
3. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of continuous classified service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates. 
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
6. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
8. Based on City policy, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
9. You may be required to pass an annual or periodic work fitness evaluation to determine your eligibility for continued employment.
10. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
11. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered open candidates. 

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN 
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3114 CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08-19-16 REV 08-08-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


