TRUCK OPERATOR
Class Code:       3583
Open Date:  01-26-18
                                              (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$52,262 to $64,915 	
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $53,264 to $66,168 and $73,810 to $77,924.

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
3. For information regarding reciprocity between City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES
	
A Truck Operator drives a truck with a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating of up to 51,999 lbs. and may be required to operate mechanical attachments on the truck; may be required to pull a trailer under 10,000 lbs. Gross Vehicle Weight with a combined length of less than 40 feet; and may work as a manual laborer or direct a manual labor crew during periods of the day when not driving.
        
REQUIREMENTS/ MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. A valid unrestricted California commercial Class A or Class B driver's license and valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles; and 
2. One year of full-time paid experience driving a truck or bus carrying a payload of at least 3,000 lbs.

PROCESS NOTES	

1. For current City employees, applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. For positions requiring a valid Class A or B driver's license, candidates will be asked to submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVS Section 1808.1 prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
3. All applicants must list the percentage of time driving a truck or bus and the weight of the payload being claimed as qualifying in the Work History section of the application or the application will not be processed. The percentage of time driving will be prorated to yield qualifying full-time experience. 
4. Applicants using City of Los Angeles experience must submit a "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form with the required signatures. The VWE should indicate the percentage of time performing the work that is claimed as qualifying experience. Applicants may attached their completed VWE form to their online application at the time of filing, or will have seven (7) calendar days from the online submission date to email a copy of their completed VWE form to per.appdocs@lacity.org. The subject line of your email must include the exam title, your name and indicate that it is a VWE. In the body of your email, you must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number and contact phone number. Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed. 
5. Some positions may require a tank or hazardous materials endorsement prior to completion of probation. 
6. Candidates appointed to some positions in the Department of Public Works may be required to furnish, at their own expense, work clothes of a designated type. 
7. Drivers will be required to perform daily pre-trip and post-trip inspections on assigned vehicles. 



SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training.  Only persons possessing the following at the time of filing may be considered for appointment to fill such positions. 

Valid Crane Operator certification issued in accordance with California Code of Regulations, Title 8, Section 5006.1, by an Accredited Certifying Entity. 

NOTES:

1. Applicants that desire to be considered for this Selective Certification must submit a valid Crane Operator certification at the time of filing. The copy of the Certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the Certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the certification at the time of filing will not be considered further in selective certification. 
2. An accredited Certifying Entity is any organization whose certification program is accredited by either the National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCCA), or the American National Standards Institute (ANSI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted online. When you are viewing the online job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. Online job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.

 APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the qualifying written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from January 26, 2018 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights: Multiple Choice Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
		          Pre-Trip Inspection Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Pass/Fail
		          Road Skills Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying multiple choice test, a qualifying pre-trip inspection test, and a weighted road skills test. In the multiple choice test, the following competencies may be evaluated: Customer Service, Teamwork, Follow Written Directions, Safety Focus including knowledge of: the purpose and use of personal protective equipment (PPE) as required by the California Occupational Health and Safety Administration (Cal-OSHA), such as hard hats and safety belts; abbreviations for various safety terms, safety signs, safety labels, symbols, and terms used on various commercial trucks and vehicles, such as hazard placards and flammable liquid symbols; safety equipment required by the California Occupational Health and Safety Administration (Cal-OSHA) to be carried on trucks; and Job Knowledge including knowledge of: traffic laws found in the California Vehicle Code specific to commercial Class A and B vehicles, and defensive driving techniques, such as looking far ahead down the road sufficient to properly and safely drive trucks to transport materials and supplies; methods and procedures used for inspecting trucks and other vehicles to determine if basic maintenance is necessary, such as using a tire tread gauge and completing an air brake inspection test; how to read maps using addresses and coordinates to identify locations, and the directions needed to transport equipment, materials, and supplies to/from worksites or to follow the refuse collection route; materials used to secure, load, hoist, and rig heavy materials, such as cables and binders; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.


Passing Score for the Qualifying Multiple Choice Test

The passing score for the qualifying multiple choice test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the multiple choice test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying written may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying multiple choice test in order to be called to the qualifying pre-trip inspection test. They will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the pre-trip inspection test, and will be e-mailed additional information regarding the pre-trip inspection test. 

During the pre-trip inspection test, candidates will be required to demonstrate their ability to accurately and thoroughly inspect a truck with a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating up to and including 51,999 pounds prior to operation.  Only candidates who receive a passing score during the pre-trip inspection test will be scheduled for the road skills test.  Candidates who fail the pre-trip inspection test will not be allowed to participate in the road skills test, and will be considered as having failed the entire examination.

The examination score will be based entirely on the demonstration of job knowledge by performance on the weighted road skills test in which you may be required to operate either a truck with a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating up to and including 51,999 pounds or a truck-trailer combination with a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating of 10,000 pounds or less with a combined length of less than 40 feet. During the road skills test, candidates will be assessed on Judgment and Decision Making, Follow Oral Directors, Safety Focus including knowledge of: safety equipment required by the California Occupational Health and Safety Administration (Cal-OSHA) to be carried on trucks; Job Knowledge including knowledge of: traffic laws found in the California Vehicle Code specific to commercial Class A and B vehicles, and defensive driving techniques, such as looking far ahead down the road sufficient to properly and safely drive trucks to transport materials and supplies; methods and procedures used for inspecting trucks and other vehicles to determine if basic maintenance is necessary; and Equipment Operation, including the ability to operate trucks with diesel powered engines, gasoline powered engines, and air, mechanical, and hydraulic brake systems in a safe and proper manner; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. Candidates who are unable to operate the vehicle in a safe manner or who demonstrate unsafe driving practices will be disqualified and considered as having failed the entire examination.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses  and clicking on Competencies under Truck Operator.

The remote proctored qualifying multiple-choice test will be administered on-line during a single session. Candidates invited to participate in the remote proctored multiple-choice test will be required to take the test from any location using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to take the test on-line. It is anticipated that the remote proctored multiple-choice test will be held in APRIL 2018. Candidates who do not complete and submit the remote proctored multiple-choice test on-line using a computer by the specified date and time will not be considered further in this examination.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study and as provided by Civil Service Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.  
2. A final average score of 70% in the Road Skills Test portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
6. The incumbents of some positions in this class may be required to pass an annual or periodic work fitness evaluation to determine their eligibility for continued employment in this class.
7. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
8. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 3583 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .01-26-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 

