UNDERGROUND DISTRIBUTION CONSTRUCTION MECHANIC

Class Code:       3812
Open Date:  10-19-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$70,783 to $87,946; $74,666 to $92,748; and $92,665 to $97,822 

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

An Underground Distribution Construction Mechanic constructs, maintains, and repairs underground ducts, maintenance holes, and vaults.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. One year of full-time paid experience as a Maintenance Laborer, Maintenance and Construction Helper, or Electrical Craft Helper with the City of Los Angeles; or
2. One year full-time paid experience in maintenance and construction work involving pipeline construction, asphalt work, electrical conduit construction, or concrete and cement work or carpentry; or
3. One year of full-time paid experience as a Utility Pre-Craft Trainee with the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, with: six months in the Underground Construction Mechanic trade, or working on a district crew in Power Distribution overhead and underground, or with Water Distribution, or
4. One year full-time paid experience in maintenance and construction work involving pipeline construction, asphalt work, electrical conduit construction, or concrete and cement work or carpentry while in the United States Armed Forces.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete an Underground Distribution Construction Mechanic Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Underground Distribution Construction Mechanic Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. All entry-level positions are temporary training positions as defined in Civil Service Commission Rule 5.30. An Underground Distribution Construction Mechanic must successfully complete an extensive on-the-job and classroom training program within twenty-four (24) months in order to receive an appointment to a regular Underground Distribution Construction Mechanic journey-level position.
3. Trainees receive extensive classroom training as well as on the job training as an Underground Distribution Construction Mechanic Trainee.
4. Underground Distribution Construction Mechanic Trainees are required to utilize various tools and equipment while working in a confined area of an underground vault, do heavy manual labor, climb ladders, install trench shoring, navigate around trench jacks in confined areas, and operate jackhammers and other pneumatic tools.
5. Applicants filing using City of Los Angeles experience for Requirement #3 must submit a "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form with the required signatures, verifying their experience in the areas noted above. The VWE form may be obtained online at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf. Applicants may attach the completed VWE form to their on-line application at the time of filing, or will have seven (7) calendar days from the online submission date to email a copy of their completed VWE form, including the required signatures to: per.appdocs@lacity.org. The subject line of your email must include the exam title, your name and indicate it is a VWE. In the body of your email, you must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number and contact phone number. Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed.
6. Active United States Military personnel may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until they have completed their military service and have been discharged with satisfactory performance. Proof of military service and satisfactory performance must be provided prior to appointment.
7. Applicants filing under Requirement #4 must submit at the time of filing their application a copy of their DD-214 or a copy of their military identification indicating End of Active Obligated Service (EAOS) date within six months from the application date. The copy of the DD-214 or military identification with EAOS must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the copy is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the DD-214 or military identification with EAOS at the time of filing by attaching it to the on-line application will not be considered further in this examination.
8. A valid unrestricted California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
9. A valid California Class "B" commercial driver's license with a current medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles is required to be obtained and maintained during the temporary training period and prior to appointment to a journey-level position. All Underground Distribution Construction Mechanics are required to drive commercial vehicles.
10. Applicants residing outside the State of California may apply with a valid and unrestricted driver's license at the time of hiring, and a valid California driver's license must be obtained within 30 days of hire, and maintained during the course of employment.
11. See the corresponding "Job Preview" for additional information regarding the duties of an Underground Distribution Construction Mechanic in a trainee and/or journey-level position. The Job Preview is available on-line at http://per.lacity.org/exams/UndergroundDistributionConstructionMechanic.pdf. 


SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training in one of more of the following areas. Only those persons who meet the requirement stated below may be considered for appointment to fill such positions by the Department of Water and Power:

Possession, at the time of appointment, of a "Journey-level Certification Number" issued by the Department of Water and Power.

Journey-level Underground Distribution Construction Mechanic constructs, maintains, and repairs underground ducts, maintenance structures, vaults, concrete curbs, gutters, and sidewalks, or may act as a lead worker in such work; performs concrete work in and around hazardous working conditions such as energized duct lines and vaults, including locating, breaking, and chipping of concrete that encases energized cables up to and including 345kV circuitry; and performs related work.

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION NOTES:

1. Three years of full-time paid experience in a position which provides experience in maintenance and construction work involving pipeline construction, asphalt work, electrical conduit construction, or concrete and cement work or carpentry will be required in order to take the Underground Distribution Construction Mechanic Apprenticeship Final Performance Test administered by the Department of Water and Power. Those who attain a passing score on this Performance Test will receive a "Journey Level Certification Number" issued by the Department of Water and Power that is required to be considered for Selective Certification.
2. Selective Certification will be used to fill a limited number of regular "journey-level" vacant positions in the Department of Water and Power directly from the Underground Distribution Construction Mechanic eligible list. Only those applicants who wish to be considered for appointment to these limited number of regular "journey-level" Underground Distribution Construction Mechanic positions need to check the Selective Certification box on their City application.
3. It is anticipated that a significant number of individuals will be interested in the limited number of available regular "journey-level" position as described in Note 2. Therefore, only those applicants possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a journey-level Underground Distribution Construction Mechanic as determined by an Expert Review Panel evaluation of the qualifications provided in the applicant's City application and Qualifications Questionnaire will be invited to take the Underground Distribution Construction Mechanic Apprenticeship Final Performance Test.
4. Participation in Selective Certification is optional and voluntary. If you do not wish to be considered for the Underground Distribution Construction Mechanic journey-level positions, you will be considered for the Underground Distribution Construction Mechanic trainee positions.
5. Selective Certification and the Underground Distribution Construction Mechanic Apprenticeship Final Performance Test may not be available for every test administration. They will only be available periodically, based solely on the Department of Water and Power's hiring need to fill regular "journey-level" positions directly from the Underground Distribution Construction Mechanic eligible list.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed below: 

From 8:00 am Friday, October 19, 2018 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, November 1, 2018
From 8:00 am Friday, October 18, 2019 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, October 31, 2019
From 8:00 am Friday, October 16, 2020 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, October 29, 2020

The examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. Filing periods may change without prior notice or additional dates may be added, as needed, at a later date. For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen on the dates noted in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Underground Distribution Construction Mechanic may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of an Underground Distribution Construction Mechanic based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.


SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination score will be based entirely on a multiple-choice test. In the written test, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of: operation and minor maintenance of power tools and hand tools; materials used in form construction; use and maintenance of a variety of tools, materials and equipment used in a large range of construction activities, such as Portland cement, concrete and cement grout work, asphalt work, excavation and breaking of concrete; methods, procedures, tools, materials, and equipment used in electrical conduit work, and digging, shoring, and cribbing; rigging techniques, including hoisting and proper use of slings, knots, ropes, and cables; standard hand signals used in construction work; survey markings and symbols used to locate underground facilities; procedures and equipment used to test explosive gases; basic first aid practices and procedures; traffic control methods for construction activities; and the ability to perform basic arithmetic; read and interpret construction plans and diagrams for maintenance holes, vaults, and conduit lines; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single, half-day session on SUNDAY, DECEMBER 16, 2018, in Los Angeles.

SCORE BANDING

The scores in the multiple-choice written test will be reported in bands that reflect candidates' performance in the written test. Seniority credit for promotional candidates and veteran credit for open candidates who attain a final passing score will be added to the banded scores of each candidate. The specific range of each band will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the multiple-choice test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the written test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the Final General Average for the Underground Distribution Mechanic examination will consist of the banded score after adding seniority credits for promotional candidates or veteran credits for open candidates who attained a final passing score.

For future test administrations, candidates may have the option of choosing to take the multiple-choice test in-person at a City facility or on-line. Those who choose to take the multiple-choice test on-line may do so as instructed from a remote location, which may include your home or City facility, using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will be notified by e-mail if this option becomes available.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate review.
2. You may take the Underground Distribution Construction Mechanic multiple-choice test only once every 24 months under this bulletin. If you have taken the Underground Distribution Construction Mechanic multiple-choice test during an open filing period in the Personnel Department within the last 24 months under this bulletin, you may not file for this examination at this time.
3. Based on City policy, before being hired in this position, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol-screening test.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.  
7. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
8. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
9. Your rank on the eligible list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of this examination are merged onto one list.
10. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
11. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. 
Class Code 3812 CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-19-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

Class Code 3812 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10-19-18

Class Code 3812 CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-19-18

