UNDERGROUND DISTRIBUTION CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISOR

          Class Code:       3814
    Open Date:  12-14-18
Revised:  12-27-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$110,476 to $116,635 and $116,259 to $122,732

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

An Underground Distribution Construction Supervisor assigns, reviews, and evaluates the work of a group of technical employees engaged in the construction, maintenance, and repair of underground ducts, maintenance holes, and vaults; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Three years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as an Underground Distribution Construction Mechanic. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire, if their record within the past 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JANUARY 3, 2019.


SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight: Essay. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
			           Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of training, experience, and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of your experience, training, and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of: general underground construction standards, methods and practices; underground construction tools and equipment sufficient to instruct others and ensure proper use; standardized types of plans for the construction of maintenance holes, underground vaults, and conduit lines; electrical codes related to underground construction; survey marking symbols related to underground facilities (USA); procedures for exposing energized lines and cables encased in concrete; methods, uses and limitations of materials and tools in performing carpentry, form building and installation, excavation, shoring and cement work for construction, maintenance or repair of underground ducts, conduit lines, maintenance holes, and vaults; hazards of working in and around electric or energized equipment, maintenance holes, vaults, and excavations; proper placement of approved warning devices; Department of Water and Power, Los Angeles Department of Transportation, and Cal/OSHA safety regulations and practices, including awareness of the electrical codes related to underground construction standards and non-electrical phases of underground construction; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) and Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) of subordinate personnel; supervisory principles and practices, including planning, scheduling, delegating, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, and evaluating the work of subordinate staff; and the ability to read and interpret plans and diagrams related to all types of underground construction, including non-electrical phases; lay out work at the job site working from plans, drawings, and survey marks; create and maintain a work environment that enhances both employee morale and productivity; deal effectively and tactfully with others; communicate orally and in writing in an effective manner; prepare routine records, progress reports, and material requisitions; operate personal computers or laptops sufficient to prepare documents and for e-mails; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of FEBRUARY 18, 2019 TO MARCH 1, 2019. 

Prior to the interview, applicants will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of an Underground Distribution Construction Supervisor. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. 

The advisory essay will be administered on-line. Applicants invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to complete the on-line advisory essay. Applicants who fail to complete the on-line advisory essay as instructed may be disqualified. It is anticipated that the on-line advisory essay will be administered between JANUARY 14, 2019 and JANUARY 22, 2019.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4.	A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5.	You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.	
6.	Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7.	In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3814. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12-14-18 REV 12-27-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

