UPHOLSTERER
                                                        	     Class Code:       3723
                                                                                                                      Open Date:   04-17-15
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$75,335  (flat-rated) 
The salary in the Department of Airports is flat-rated at $77,256.
The salary range in the Department of Water and Power is $53,766 to $66,816; and $63,287 to $78,613.
Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
The salary range covers multiple pay grades within the class.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.


DUTIES

An Upholsterer repairs and replaces upholstery on automotive seats and office furniture through the use of leather, plastic, fabric, canvas, and vinyl plastic materials. Modifies, fabricates, and constructs vehicle interior and exterior paneling, awnings, covers, curtains, floor mats, compartments and insulation, through the use of masonite, plywood, cardboard, rubber, vinyl, cloth and foam materials.

REQUIREMENT


Five years of full-time paid experience in automotive and furniture upholstery repair work.

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).


WHERE TO APPLY


Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL 30, 2015.
NOTE:
Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.	

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the technical interview in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from April 17, 2015 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

Examination Weight: Demonstration of Job Knowledge and Evaluation of General Qualifications by Technical Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by technical interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on an evaluation of the nature and adequacy of the candidate's experience, training, and professional development as they have provided the background needed to carry out the duties of an Upholsterer, including knowledge of: leather, plastics, fabrics and other materials used in automotive and furniture upholstery; the machines, tools, methods, and processes used in rebuilding upholstered articles and the fabrication of leather, canvas, and plastic goods; safety; the ability to: use sewing machines and other tools of the upholstery trade; design, measure, fit, cut, and install seat covers and other articles of leather, plastics, and fabrics; follow oral and written instructions; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the Demonstration of Job Knowledge and Evaluation of General Qualifications by Technical Interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that examinations will begin during the period of JUNE 22, 2015 through JULY 3, 2015.

NOTES:

1. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.

NOTICE: 

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.


THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN 
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS


The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.


Class Code 3723. . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04-17-15

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

