UTILITY BUYER

Class Code:       1861
Open Date:  09-07-18
 (Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$83,352 to $103,564

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Utility Buyer purchases a variety of supplies, equipment, services, and materials for use in the Department of Water and Power; performs professional staff work by analyzing bids and making awards based on the lowest ultimate cost to the Department of Water and Power; and does related work.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

One year of full-time paid experience in a class at the level of Management Assistant or Assistant Utility Buyer, which provides experience in preparing solicitations and administering contracts for services or the purchase of industrial commodities for use and not resale, preparing specifications, analyzing bids, conferring with vendors, and making recommendations for awards of contracts.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. To be at the level of Management Assistant or Assistant Utility Buyer, qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles must be obtained in a position that requires possession of a degree from an accredited four year college or university. Therefore, non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four year-degree. 
4. A valid certification as one of the following is desired, but not required:
a. Certified Purchasing Manager (C.P.M.) or Certified Professional in Supply Management (C.P.S.M.) issued by the Institute of Supply Management (formerly known as the National Association of Purchasing Management (N.A.P.M) ; or
b. Certified Professional Contracts Manager (CPCM) issued by the National Contracts Management Association; or
c. Certified Public Purchasing Officer (CPPO) issued by the Universal Public Procurement Certification Council; or
d. Certified Professional Public Buyer (CPPB) issued by the Universal Public Procurement Certification Council.
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
6. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree and coursework.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Exams.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2018.

SELECTION PROCESS 

Examination Weights:  Multiple-Choice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying
           Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination for Utility Buyer will consist of a qualifying multiple-choice test and an interview. The qualifying multiple-choice test will consist of questions administered and proctored on-line. In the on-line multiple-choice test, the following competencies may be evaluated: the principles, practices, and trade terminology of public purchasing, including regulations, procedures, and practices of the Department of Water and Power; materials and services commonly used by a large water and power utility; Federal, State, and City laws relative to purchasing procedures; factors involved in determining the acceptance or rejection of bids and awarding contracts; supervisory principles, practices, including laws and regulations related to Equal Employment Opportunity; the ability to: tabulate, check purchasing data, make mathematical computations, and prepare mathematical and analytical reports; deal tactfully and effectively with employees, City officials, other agencies, representatives, vendors, and suppliers; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

The multiple-choice test will be proctored and administered on-line during a single session. Candidates invited to participate in the on-line multiple-choice test will be able to take the test from any location using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the dates and specific steps on how to take the multiple-choice test on-line. It is anticipated that the remote proctored multiple-choice test will be held in NOVEMBER 2018. Candidates who do not complete and submit the remote proctored multiple-choice test on-line using a computer by the specified date and time will not be considered further in this examination.

Passing Score for Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying multiple-choice is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score in the qualifying multiple-choice test in order to be scheduled for the interview.

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of: the principles, practices, and trade terminology of public purchasing, including regulations, procedures, and practices of the Department of Water and Power; Federal, State, and City laws relative to purchasing procedures; factors involved in determining the acceptance or rejection of bids and awarding contracts; techniques and practices utilized in the analysis of bids and specifications in the making of awards; how to source supplies for a wide variety of commodities; City's outreach programs such as Small Business Enterprise and Disabled Veteran Enterprise; supervisory principles and practices including laws and regulations related to Equal Employment Opportunity; the ability to: analyze bids based on price, delivery, immediate need for product, and responsiveness; deal tactfully and effectively with employees, City officials, other agencies, representatives, vendors, and suppliers; utilize initiative and sound judgment in analyzing and reviewing recommendations related to bids, Request for Proposals (RFPs), specifications, and granting awards; communicate orally in an effective manner; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. 

NOTES: 

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by the Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
5. A final average score of 70% in the interview is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
1. Positi
THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1861 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09-07-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

