VIDEO TECHNICIAN
Class Code:       6145
Open Date:  01-27-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$52,951 to $77,402 and $58,672 to $85,795

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Video Technician operates municipal access equipment for City departments, City Council offices, the Mayor, and other City sponsored public meetings and events; performs off-line and on-line editing; oversees and performs related tasks in a particular area of municipal access operations, such as field production, directing and producing City Council and other meeting coverage, or post-production; acts as a liaison to City departments, the Mayor's Office and City Council offices in providing related services; provides technical assistance in the operation and maintenance of equipment; and does related work.


REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid video production experience, including the operation, use, and care of video production equipment.
	
A certificate from a recognized broadcast television training program or a closely related field may substitute for one year of the required experience.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all candidates must complete the Video Technician Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Video Technician Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions of the City Application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination. 





APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview portion of this examination in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from January 27, 2017, in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Video Technician may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Video Technician based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 and the Qualifications Review as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Interview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100% 

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: judgment and decision making, conscientiousness, customer service, teamwork, oral communication, technology application, and job knowledge, including knowledge of: operating procedures, maintenance, storage, and security of broadcast-quality video systems and equipment; methods and techniques used for troubleshooting common problems experienced when operating video systems and equipment; video programming genres and video production techniques; basic scriptwriting and pre-production techniques; procedures used to convert video media files into the appropriate format for various applications; software programs and their functions used for video production, editing and/or photography; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Video Technician.

The interviews, which will be held in Los Angeles, are anticipated to begin during the period of MARCH 27, 2017 to APRIL 07, 2017. Candidates invited to participate in the interview will be required to self-schedule themselves for a specific date and time. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to self-schedule themselves, and will be required to do so by the date provided in the instructions sent to them via email. Candidates that do not self-schedule themselves within the required time will not be considered further in this examination.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the American with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on the bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Section 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve problems prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Code No. 6145 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 01-27-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

