VOLUNTEER COORDINATOR
  Class Code:      2495
  Open Date: 03-02-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$58,171 to $85,044

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.


DUTIES

A Volunteer Coordinator plans, develops, and coordinates volunteer programs for a City department, including the development of job descriptions, recruitment strategies and volunteer training programs; trains permanent staff in methods of using volunteers; and designs and implements policies and procedures for a department's volunteer program.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Currently employed with the City of Los Angeles; and
2. Graduation from an accredited college or university; and
3. Two years of full-time professional experience planning, developing, and coordinating volunteer programs.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application form, each candidate is required to complete the Volunteer Coordinator Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing.  The Volunteer Coordinator Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application.  Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).  
3. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. 
4. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that required possession of a degree from a recognized four-year college or university in order to obtain that position.  Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
5. Direct supervision of individual volunteers without responsibility for an overall volunteer program will not meet Requirement #3.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2018.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from March 2, 2018 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW 

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Volunteer Coordinator may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Volunteer Coordinator, based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review, will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 and the qualifications review as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and professional development as they have provided knowledge of: volunteer management concepts to recruit and retain volunteers and manage an effective volunteer program; principles, techniques, tools, and media used for volunteer recruitment and recognition programs; social and traditional media sufficient to promote volunteer programs; database management sufficient to analyze and report information received from volunteer programs, including recruitment events; training concepts and learning methods to prepare volunteers for their duties; and the ability to direct, coordinate, organize, and assign the work of employees engaged in volunteer activities; prepare written reports, memoranda, and correspondence to clearly and effectively communicate with program members, employees, and the public;  present information before groups and others in a clear and effective manner; interact tactfully, effectively, and diplomatically with a wide variety of volunteers, employees, and the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

As part of their evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will consider the information in the Qualifications Questionnaire. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of MAY 7, 2018 TO MAY 18, 2018.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidate's City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:
If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage, as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN 
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 2495 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03-02-18


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


