WASTEWATER COLLECTION WORKER

Class Code:       4110
Open Date:  10-26-12
Revised: 09-28-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$43,973 to $62,556, $50,634 to $72,077 and $53,828 to $76,629

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions. 
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 

DUTIES

A Wastewater Collection Worker performs a variety of semi-skilled and skilled tasks in the maintenance and repair of sanitary sewers and storm drains; operates highly specialized sewer and storm drain cleaning equipment; utilizes laptop computers to complete work assignments; performs research on wastewater collection assets; and may act as a working field supervisor over a small group of employees.

NOTE:

A Job Preview with additional information regarding the duties and requirements of a Wastewater Collection Worker will be available for candidate review during the on-line application process, and is also available on the City website at http://per.lacity.org/exams/4110preview.pdf.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. One year of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles Department of Public Works, Bureau of Sanitation, Wastewater Collection Systems Division, as a Maintenance Laborer, Maintenance and Construction Helper, or Mechanical Helper; or
2. One year of full-time paid experience in the maintenance, repair or construction of municipal sanitary sewers or storm drain systems. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. All entry-level positions are temporary training positions as defined in Civil Service Commission Rule 5.30. A Wastewater Collection Worker in a trainee position must successfully complete a three-year training period which will include operational, safety, commercial driving, and on-the-job training. Trainees must also complete a correspondence course offered by the California State University of Sacramento in operating and maintaining wastewater collection systems.
2. A valid California Driver's License is required.  A valid Class ''B'' driver's license with both air brake and tanker endorsements will be required by the fourth month of the temporary training period.
3. A good driving record will be required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if within the past 36 months they were convicted of a major moving violation, such as driving under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs, and may be disqualified if there are three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents within the past 36 months. 
4. A California Water Environment Association Grade I Certificate in Wastewater Collection System Maintenance is required within three years from the date of appointment to the class.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity   for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you have considered a candidate in this examination.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Filing may be closed without prior notice after a sufficient number of applications are received. For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen the following workday.

The written test for Wastewater Collection Worker will be held on the second Saturday of every other month until further notice.

Candidates whose City applications are received and approved by Thursday two weeks prior to the scheduled written test date will be scheduled to take the test on the 2nd Saturday of the following month.

The written test will be administered in a single half-day session. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be held in Los Angeles.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a multiple-choice written test in which candidates may be examined for knowledge of: operation of vehicles, including Motor Vehicle Code; problems in storm drains sufficient to correct them; operating fire hydrants, including attachment; safety principles, procedures and regulations, including Cal/OSHA regulations; safety and emergency equipment, including personal clothing requirements for specialized use for various jobs; traffic control requirements for safe work in streets; permits required for work on state highways and freeways; Equal Employment Opportunity regulations and principles; ability to work safely and effectively with hand, power and pneumatic tools and compressors; read and interpret written material, including street maps, computer-based Geographic Information Systems (GIS), and supervisors' instructions; interact tactfully and effectively with coworkers, supervisors, and the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities. 

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection. 
2. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class. 
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin. 
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list. 
6. In conjunction with Civil Service rules, applicants who are current eligible City employee or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates. 
7. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit of 0.25 points per year of City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
8. You may take this test only once every 365 days during the administration of the examination. 

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
 INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 4110 CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-26-12 REV 09-28-17

 AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 


