WASTEWATER TREATMENT MECHANIC

Class Code:       5614
Open Date:  02-17-12
Revised: 12-04-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

 $92,326 (flat-rated)

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Wastewater Treatment Mechanic performs a variety of skilled tasks in maintaining, overhauling and assembling mechanical equipment and auxiliaries associated with combustion equipment, boilers, cryogenic equipment, large diesel engines, pumps, compressors, barscreens, collectors, clarifiers, centrifuges, conveyors, heat exchangers, emissions control equipment, and other equipment found in a wastewater treatment plant or a wastewater collection system; or performs the more difficult and skilled mechanical work with limited supervisory responsibility over a small crew.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Mechanical Repairer or Steam Plant Assistant with the City of Los Angeles in the repair of diesel equipment or wastewater equipment; or 
2. Two-years of full-time paid experience as a millwright or machinist repairing diesel or wastewater equipment in an industrial facility; or
3. Four years of full-time paid experience assisting in the repair and maintenance of mechanical equipment, or performance of semi-skilled manual tasks in construction and repair activities. One year of this experience must be assisting in the maintenance and repair of wastewater equipment.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Incumbents of some positions in the class may be required to pass an annual or periodic work fitness evaluation to determine their eligibility for continued employment in this class.
2. A valid California Class B driver's license may be required prior to appointment. Where required, all candidates must submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles Section 1808.1 prior to appointment.
3. Candidates who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Filing may be closed without prior notice after a sufficient number of applications are received.  For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen the following workday. 

The written test for Wastewater Treatment Mechanic will be held on the second Saturday of every other month until further notice.

Candidates whose City applications are received and approved by Thursday two weeks prior to the scheduled written test date will be scheduled to take the test on the 2nd Saturday of the following month.

The written test will be administered in a single half-day session. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be held in Los Angeles.


SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of a multiple-choice written test in which candidates may be examined for knowledge of: principles, operation, maintenance, repair, adjustment, and service of blowers, fans, pumps, and auxiliaries; methods of repair and overhaul of centrifuges, blowers, gas and air-compressor units, pumps, gear drivers, and boilers; methods, equipment, tools, and terminology of trades involved in mechanical repair work; safety principles and practices related to maintenance and repair of Wastewater Equipment; the ability to: read and follow blueprints, plans, and written instructions; troubleshoot mechanical problems and equipment; deal tactfully and effectively with others; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

NOTES:

1. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if within the past 36 months they were convicted of a major moving violation, such as driving under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs, and may be disqualified if there are three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents within the past 36 months.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin. 
3. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.  
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Based on City policy, before being hired in one of these positions, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol screening test.
7. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf
8. You may take this examination only once every 365 days during the administration of this examination. Your name may be removed from the open competitive list after one year. 
9. Your rank on the eligible list may change as the scores of candidates from other administrations of this examination are merged onto one list. 

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

	THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ON BOTH AN
	INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  


Class Code 5614 CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .02-17-12 REV 12-04-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 





