WATER UTILITY OPERATOR SUPERVISOR

Class Code: 5857
 Open Date: 06-29-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$93,041 to $98,219; $104,191 to $109,995; and $119,809 to $126,491

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Water Utility Operator Supervisor supervises and personally participates in the operation and maintenance of electric water pumping plants, reservoirs, wells and related water facilities, monitors the operation of computerized Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System (SCADA); applies sound supervisory techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force, and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Four years of full-time paid experience in a position at the level of Water Utility Operator, two years of which must be with the City of Los Angeles, operating and maintaining potable water pump stations, wells, tanks, reservoirs, and related facilities and equipment; and
2. A California State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB), Division of Drinking Water certificate as a Distribution Operator Grade 2 or higher is required for the entire four years of qualifying experience.

PROCESS NOTES  

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
3. At the time of appointment, the Water Utility Operator Supervisor must possess a valid California State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB), Division of Drinking Water Grade 3 Distribution Operator Certificate. Applicants who lack a California State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB), Division of Drinking Water Grade 3 Distribution Operator Certificate may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until they obtain the required certificate.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:


Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.



APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JULY 12, 2018.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Judgment and Decision Making, Analytical Ability, Supervision, Interpersonal Skills, Oral Communication, Leadership, Safety Focus, including safety procedures and use of personal protective equipment as required by the Department of Water and Power and California Occupational Safety and Health Administration (Cal-OSHA) when working in confined spaces, and/or around electrical and mechanical equipment; and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: the basic principles of hydraulics, mechanics and electricity as they relate to pressure and elevation in a water system; the procedures required to operate and maintain electric pumping plants, diesel driven pumps, and air compressors; the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system and its use; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Water Utility Operator Supervisor. 

The interviews, which will be held in Los Angeles, are anticipated to begin during the period of AUGUST 27, 2018 to SEPTEMBER 7, 2018. Candidates invited to participate in the interview will be required to self-schedule themselves for a specific date and time. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to self-schedule themselves, and will be required to do so by the date provided in the instructions sent to them via email. Candidates that do not self-schedule themselves within the required time will not be considered further in this examination.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study. 
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
8. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met. 

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY 
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 5857 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06-29-18


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

