WHARFINGER

Class Code:       1190
Open Date:  09-21-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$55,854 to $81,640 and $63,621 to $92,999

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lowest pay grade positions.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Wharfinger tracks cargo by terminal, vessel, and steamship line; evaluates shipping documents for the collection of all shipping services fees and cargo/container statistics associated with vessels, agents, terminals and shipping companies, and inspects facilities in accordance with the Port of Los Angeles Tariff No. 4 and the respective terminal agreements; investigates reports of damage and takes appropriate action; and prepares reports and documentation, as required.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid clerical experience in preparing or processing marine shipping documents; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles at the level of Senior Administrative Clerk, processing maritime related documents.

Successful completion of a Maritime Documentation, International Business or Import/Export Procedure course at an accredited college or university may be substituted for one year of experience.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application form, each applicant is required to complete the Wharfinger Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Wharfinger Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Question Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed. 
2. Applicants substituting education for experience lacking must list their school name and location, course title with the number of semester or quarter units, and completion dates in the School/Training section of the application.
3. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
4. Education or experience in computer applications, i.e., databases, spreadsheets, word processing, electronic data interchanges, Internet or other electronic processes, is especially desired but not required.
5. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
6. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be completed at the time of filing for you to be considered in this examination.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, an expert review committee may be assembled to evaluate each candidate's qualification for the position of  Wharfinger. In this evaluation, the expert review committee will assess each candidate's training and experience based upon the information in the candidate's City employment application and the Qualification Questionnaire. Those candidates considered by the expert review committee as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Wharfinger, based solely on the information presented to the committee, will be invited to participate in the interview.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on candidate's experience, training, and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of: Port of Los Angeles Tariff # 4 in order to adequately understand and explain the rules and regulations for various items such as wharfage, dockage, demurrage, and pilotage; documentation used in the maritime transportation industry, the commercial fishing industry, and port operations; basic bookkeeping terms and principles; basic operating systems and computer programs necessary to retrieve information and correct errors in data regarding pilotage, dockage, bills of lading, demurrage, and container reports; and the ability to: compare data from multiple sources in order to identify errors and discrepancies to ensure cargo, passenger counts, and charges are correct; prioritize and manage multiple assignments with competing deadlines; communicate orally with others on job-related matters, including tariff related information, in a clear, concise, and organized manner; demonstrate effective interpersonal skills sufficient to develop and maintain good customer relations necessary to resolve problems or questions regarding port operations; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Additionally, the interview board will consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire in their overall evaluation of the candidates' qualifications. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of NOVEMBER 26, 2018 to DECEMBER 7, 2018.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
6. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
 INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1190 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .09-21-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

