ACCOUNTANT

Class Code:       1513
Open Date:  06-22-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$49,903 to $72,996 and $55,019 to $80,472

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Accountant does professional accounting work in the analysis, preparation, maintenance, control, and reconciliation of financial records and reports in accordance with the principles of governmental and public accounting.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university and at least 24 semester or 36 quarter units in accounting.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
2. Course titles, number of units and completion dates for each course must be listed in the City application, if you did not receive a degree in Accounting.
3. Applicants who are within one semester or one quarter of obtaining their degrees may apply. Such applicants cannot be appointed until they have received their degrees.
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
5. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree and/or coursework. Applicants who wish to expedite this process may attach a copy of their transcripts (annotated with accounting courses, credit earned, and grade received) or qualifying degree to their on-line application at the time of filing in the Attachments section.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the following dates listed below:

From 8:00 am Friday, June 22, 2018 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, July 5, 2018
From 8:00 am Friday, June 28, 2019 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, July 11, 2019

The examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. Filing periods may change without prior notice or additional dates may be added, as needed, at a later date. For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen on the dates noted in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. 

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
        Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

In the qualifying written test, which will consist of multiple choice questions, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: generally accepted accounting principles including governmental, cost and commercial accounting; methods used to prepare various kinds of financial statements and reports; accounting and administrative systems, practices and procedures; principles of internal control and audit procedures; electronic data processing principles as they apply to accounting and other financial work; Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS), and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB); auditing principles and practices; the ability to read, analyze, and interpret complex electronically produced and written financial data, reports, contracts, legal documents, and procedural manuals relating to a wide variety of accounting matters; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

The first qualifying written test will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, AUGUST 25, 2018, in Los Angeles. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test. Additional test dates may be added as needed.

Passing Score for the Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying multiple-choice test in order to be invited to the interview. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and personal qualifications as they provide the knowledge of: generally accepted accounting principles including governmental, cost and commercial accounting; methods of preparation of various kinds of financial statements and reports; accounting and administrative systems, practices and procedures; principles of internal control and audit procedures; electronic data processing principles as they apply to accounting and other financial work; Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS), and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB); auditing principles and practices; the ability to prepare clear, concise, complete, and accurate narrative and financial reports; read, analyze, and interpret complex electronically produced and written financial data, reports, contracts, legal documents, and procedural manuals relating to a wide variety of accounting matters; work independently under pressure of time, conflicting demands, and unexpected difficulties; communicate effectively with coworkers, supervisors, the public, and others for the purpose of ensuring proper and timely completion of assigned work; get along with co-workers and work effectively as a member of a team; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study and, as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. Candidates may take the test only once every 365 days during the administration of the examination. Names may be removed from the open competitive eligible list after six months.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list. This score will be based on each candidate's performance on the interview.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 1513 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06-22-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

