AIR CONDITIONING MECHANIC SUPERVISOR

Class Code:       3781
Open Date:  11-16-18
 (Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$103,841 and $108,482 (flat-rated)
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $127,388 to $134,488

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

An Air Conditioning Mechanic Supervisor assigns, reviews and evaluates the work of a crew engaged in the installation, modification, maintenance and repair of refrigeration, air conditioning, heating and ventilating equipment and related facilities; lays out and prepares cost estimates for new installations; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Four years of full-time paid experience as an air conditioning mechanic or in a craft at the journey-level involved in the installation, modification, maintenance and repair of air conditioning, refrigeration, heating and ventilating equipment, two years of which must include experience working with one or more of the following controls:
a. electric controls
b. electronic controls
c. pneumatic controls
d. direct digital control systems
e. energy management and building automation controls

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. In accordance with Section 608 of the Clean Air Act, and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) - Approved Universal Technician Certification is required at the time of filing. Applicants must provide their Certification ID number and Date of Certification.
4. In addition to the regular City application, applicants using their City experience must submit a City of Los Angeles "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form, with the required signatures, which must indicate their experience in:
a) installation, modification, maintenance and repair of air conditioning, refrigeration, heating and ventilating equipment; and 
b) working with one or more of the controls specified in the requirements;
The VWE form should indicate the type of work performed and the amount of time spent performing such work. 
5. The "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form may be downloaded http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf. Applicants may attach the completed VWE form to their on-line application at the time of filing, or will have seven (7) calendar days from the on-line submission date to e-mail a copy of their completed VWE form to per.appdocs@lacity.org. The subject line of your e-mail must include the exam title, your name and indication it is a VWE. In the body of your e-mail, you must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number and contact phone number. Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2018.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:    Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
							     Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the evaluation of the nature and adequacy of the candidate's experience, training, and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of: air conditioning machinery, equipment and installation; controls and control systems of air conditioning and refrigeration systems; physical properties of liquids and gases used in refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment; brazing, soldering, and cutting methods used to join pipes, tubing and supports; operation and maintenance requirements for low-pressure steam heating boilers; methods and procedures used in the diagnosis, correction, testing and servicing, calibrating, and installing electrical, electronic, pneumatic, mechanical, and hydraulic failures or malfunctions of HVAC equipment; applications, properties, and characteristics of materials used in HVAC and refrigeration equipment; safe working conditions and practices relating to air conditioning, refrigeration, heating, and ventilation equipment; computer operation, personal computer interfaces and direct digital controls; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending and evaluating the work of subordinates; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures including Equal Employment Opportunities and Memoranda of Understanding; and the ability to read plans, drawings, sketches, blueprints and wiring diagrams of mechanical, electrical, and electronic mechanisms pertaining to HVAC and refrigeration equipment, read complex technical material such as codes, ordinances, regulations, manufacturers' specifications, technical literature, and trade publications; analyze HVAC system problems or malfunctions and determine the best use of available resources; accurately install, align, adjust, calibrate, and test refrigeration and air-conditioning machinery and equipment and control devices; accurately install and adjust control wiring; resolve operating and maintenance problems; direct, plan, organize, coordinate, and schedule the activities of subordinate staff; make accurate, independent decisions which conform to policies, regulations, codes, and rules; analyze project requirement and deadlines sufficient to effectively plan and schedule work activities to ensure completion within targeted goals; obtain and provide technical information from workers, vendors, manufacturer's representatives, engineering personnel, and other craft trade supervisors; accurately fill in information on time sheets, inspection logs, maintenance records, and attendance records; explain complex HVAC systems to technical and non-technical personnel; communicate persuasively with supervisors, union representatives, other craft supervisors, and tenants; communicate in writing sufficient to prepare narrative reports on operational problems, environmental problems, and energy conservation; interact tactfully and effectively with workers, supervisors, City officials, regulatory agencies, vendors, tenants and the general public; and other knowledge, skills and abilities.

Prior to the interview, applicants will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of an Air Conditioning Mechanic Supervisor. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Please note that applicants must complete the advisory essay and meet minimum qualifications as stated on this bulletin in order to be considered further in the examination process.

The advisory essay will be administered on-line. Applicants invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps needed to complete the on-line advisory essay. Applicants will be required to complete the on-line advisory essay between MONDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2018 and MONDAY, DECEMBER 17, 2018. Additional instructions will be sent via e-mail. Applicants who fail to complete the advisory essay as instructed may be disqualified.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JANUARY 22, 2019 to FEBRUARY 1, 2019.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted score of each candidate.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.




Class Code 3781 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-16-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

