


AIRPORT CHIEF INFORMATION SECURITY OFFICER

     Class Code:      1404
     Open Date: 12-04-15
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$125,551 to $183,576

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

Airport Chief Information Security Officer manages the design, development, implementation, operation and maintenance of all LAWA information security programs; protects the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of all voice, data network, application, network infrastructure and their associated information assets; creates a security-conscious culture through training and development; implements and maintains a security infrastructure based on policies and procedures; ensures compliance with applicable Federal, State, local laws and ordinances; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS

1. A bachelor's degree from an accredited four-year college or university; and
2. CISSP Certification (Certified Information Systems Security Professional); and
3. Four years of full-time paid experience at least at the level of Systems Programmer III working as a lead or supervising in the area of planning, designing, implementing, and configuring a secure network infrastructure and/or mission-critical applications containing enterprise data.

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application, all candidates must complete the Airport Chief Information Security Officer Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing.  The Airport Chief Information Security Officer Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions of the City Application.  Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed.
2. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
3. Applicants must list their CISSP (Certified Information Systems Security Professional) Certification number and expiration date in the Supplemental Questions Section of the on-line application.  Applicants who fail to provide this information will be disqualified from this examination.
4. To be at the level of a Systems Programmer III, an applicant must have received a four year degree from an accredited institution and worked a minimum of two years of full-time paid work programming computer systems or planning designing, implementing, and configuring distributed systems/application operating over multi-segmented area networks prior to leading or supervising staff performing the above-mentioned duties. Thus qualifying experience for requirement #3 will be counted at the Systems Programmer III level only after two years of full-time paid experience in systems programming work performed after receiving a four-year degree.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, DECEMBER 17, 2015.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from December 4, 2015, in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Airport Chief Information Security Officer may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of an Airport Chief Information Security Officer based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%				                          
The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Judgment and Decision Making, Analytical Ability, Innovation, Job Knowledge, Technology Application, Supervision, Fiscal Management, Results Orientation, and Interpersonal Skills.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/jobanalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Airport Chief Information Security Officer.

The Qualifications Questionnaire will not be separately scored, but will be considered by the interview board in evaluating each candidate's qualifications. Candidates may expect the panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of JANUARY 25, 2016 TO FEBRUARY 5, 2016.
						 
NOTES:

1. The examination is based on a validation study.
2. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter. 
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. Promotional candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those City classes which provide qualifying experience for this position. A maximum of one point will be added to the score of the candidates. 
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
7. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
8. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
	
THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 1404. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-04-15

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

