AIRPORT INFORMATION SPECIALIST


Class Code:       1783
Open Date:  12-11-15
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 
 
$42,991 to $62,869 and $53,724 to $78,529

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

An Airport Information Specialist provides and/or supervises the provision of information services at Los Angeles World Airports; plans, organizes and coordinates special events for the Department; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Current employment with the City of Los Angeles; and 
2. 2,080 hours of paid experience as an Airport Guide II; or
3. 4,160 hours of paid experience as an Airport Guide I or Airport Information Aide.

NOTES:

1. Applicants may use their experience gained as an Airport Guide II to satisfy the conditions stated under requirement #3.
2. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for appointment to these positions if their record for the past 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations. 
 
APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, DECEMBER 24, 2015.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the Interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from December 11, 2015 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
                                        Interview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's background and personal qualifications as it relates to knowledge of  history, policies, developments, objectives, facilities and functions of Los Angeles World Airports; the functions of various installations at City Airports, including those of tenants and concessionaires; techniques and procedures applicable to person-to-person aspects of public relations and customer service; policies and procedures regarding crisis situations in the Airports, including Incident Command System (ICS); practices, policies, protocols, procedures and safety rules governing the use of Airport facilities; supervisory principles and practices; City personnel policies and procedures, including equal employment opportunity; the ability to plan, organize, direct and coordinate guide services, special events and the activities of employees engaged in providing guide and information services to Airport visitors; manage community outreach programs; use various computer applications; use independent judgment in resolving confrontations or conflicts; deal tactfully, persuasively and effectively with others; communicate orally effectively, sufficient to speak convincingly before the media and various organizational groups; read and understand materials pertinent to Airport operations; communicate in writing in a clear, concise, and organized manner; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

At the time of the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of Airport Information Specialist. This material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory writing session will be disqualified. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their advisory essay responses.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews for this examination will begin during the period of FEBRUARY 8, 2016 to FEBRUARY 29, 2016.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study. 
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on the bulletin. 
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list. 
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. In conjunction with Civil Services Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
7. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates. 
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1783 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-11-15

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


