AIRPORT ENGINEER
Class Code:       7256
Open Date:  07-06-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 
 
$105,005 to $153,509 and $111,854 to $163,532     

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

An Airport Engineer performs professional engineering work in the planning, design, construction, maintenance, and operation of landside facilities, structures, pavement and support systems at an airport; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities. 

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS 

1. Two years of full-time paid professional experience at the level of Engineering Associate III in the areas of civil, structural, mechanical, electrical, or communication engineering in the design, construction, management or engineering of airport/aviation projects or programs; and a valid license as a Professional Engineer with the California State Board of Registration for Professional Engineer; or
2. Five years of full-time paid professional experience (two years of which requiring a PE license to perform duties) in the areas of civil, structural, mechanical, electrical, or communication engineering in the design, construction, management or engineering of airport/aviation projects or programs and a valid license as a Professional Engineer with the California State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. To be at the level of an Engineering Associate III requires a Professional Engineer license and experience as a supervisor or lead engineer involved in professional engineering work that is technically complex.
3. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
4. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that required possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university or obtaining an Engineer in Training (EIT) certificate. Therefore, to be considered "professional", non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree or EIT.
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at https://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.  


NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JULY 19, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 


SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:   Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  100%

The examination will consist entirely of an interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Judgment and Decision Making, Attention to Detail, Initiative, Supervision, Responsiveness and Follow-up, Teamwork, Project Management, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: engineering principles and practices related to civil, structural, electrical, mechanical, and/or communications; technical requirements and regulations related to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and Transportation Security Administration (TSA) standards;  layout, functions and components of airfield operational areas (AOA); layout, functions, and components of airport terminal facility operations; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses  and clicking on Competencies under Airport Engineer.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interview will begin during the period of SEPTEMBER 10, 2018 to SEPTEMBER 21, 2018.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open candidates ahead of the promotional candidates. 
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lactiy.org/exams/verity_disability.pdf. 
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list

NOTES:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7256 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07-06-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 

Class Code 3353 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 01-23-15

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to:  http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


