AIRPORT MANAGER

Class Code:       7260
Open Date:  12-02-16
				(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
						
ANNUAL SALARY

$99,326 to $141,378; $112,647 to $160,295; $132,525 to $188,567

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Airport Manager manages, through subordinate supervisors, the landside transportation, air side operations, construction project management, and maintenance activities at a commercial or general aviation airport; coordinates with law enforcement to maintain security of airport property, buildings, facilities, and airfield; participates in planning and coordinating the use of airport facilities by airport tenants and other concerned organizations; may direct the public and community relations activities at the outlying airport; fulfills Equal Employment Opportunity responsibilities; and applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles in a class at the level of Chief of Operations coordinating airports related expansion or improvement programs or supervising staff involved in the operations or maintenance of an airport; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience as a second-level supervisor with responsibility for the operations or maintenance of a medium or large hub commercial airport (as defined by the Federal Aviation Administration).

PROCESS NOTES

1. Those in the class of Assistant Airport Manager may qualify for future Airport Manager exams. 
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, DECEMBER 15, 2016.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from December 02, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated:  judgment and decision making, supervision, responsiveness and follow-up, interpersonal skills, resolves conflict, oral communication, leadership, and job knowledge including knowledge of: best practices in airport operations, including but not limited to, airfield, landside, and terminal operations; Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA) property boundaries and airport security measures including but not limited Transportation Security Administration regulations, the LAX Airport Certification Manual as approved by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), LAX rules and regulations, and LAX Airport Response Plan; noise and environmental programs such as the sound insulation program, the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990, and Federal Aviation Regulation Part 161 Study for LAX and Van Nuys Airport (VNY); the LAWA Emergency Management System (EMS), Department Operations Center (DOC) procedures, and emergency response procedures such as the Airport Response Plan; federal, state, and local laws as they affect the operation of LAWA such as FAA Part 139 regulations and those pertaining to air and ground traffic control of aircrafts; airline operational procedures and aviation industry terminology; the facilities on LAWA property that are the responsibility of LAWA staff, LAWA tenants, or LAWA leaseholders in order to ensure that all LAWA owned facilities are properly maintained and secured, and that lease agreement conditions are followed; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Airport Manager.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JANUARY 30, 2017 to FEBRUARY 10, 2017.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based validation study.
2. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period under the provisions of City Charter Section 1011.
3. Promotional candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of continuous service in those classes, which provide qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of those candidates.
4. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
5. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
7. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
8. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.10 of a point seniority credit for each year of continuous classified City service in qualifying classes up to a maximum of one point, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
9. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
10. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7260 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-02-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

