ANIMAL KEEPER

Class Code:       4304
Open Date:  08-31-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$45,810 to $66,983

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Animal Keeper cares for exotic mammals, birds, and reptiles (including venomous varieties) at the Los Angeles Zoo; observes and reports on animal behavior and condition for illnesses, compatibility, imminent birth and other signs reflecting the animal's well-being; prepares food for animals as instructed; maintains the exhibit premises in a clean and aesthetically pleasing manner; answers questions about animals from the general public; may make educational and other presentations before groups, and on radio and television; and may provide training and supervision to volunteers and students in caring for animals.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. One year of full-time paid experience in the care and maintenance of exotic animals with a facility similar to the Los Angeles Zoo whose core function is the exhibition of a variety of exotic animals; or
2. (a)	Successful completion of the Animal Keeper Training program conducted by the Los Angeles Zoo; or 
	(b)	An equivalent program at an accredited school or college providing classroom and field work on the basic structure and function of exotic animals; basic nutritional requirements; recognition of the symptoms of animal diseases; sanitation measures; and aspects of animal behavior.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Animal Keeper Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Animal Keeper Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination.
2. Exotic animals are any species that are not domestic such as common pets or farm animals. 
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #2a or #2b, must submit a copy of their Certificate of Completion or school transcript at the time of filing. The copy of the Certificate of Completion or school transcript must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the copy of the Certificate of Completion or school transcript is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it, and WILL NOT be considered further in this examination.
a. Individuals within six months of completing the accredited program may apply. However, candidates cannot be appointed until they submit proof of having completed the program. Applicants must list their anticipated completion date in the Education section of the on-line application. 
4. An Animal Keeper may be exposed to personal danger during routine daily duties. An Animal Keeper may be exposed to diseased and injured animals and to dangerous chemicals used in the daily care of animals and enclosures. 
5. Animal Keepers must be available to work weekends and holidays. 
6. Animal Keeper assignments may be rotated among various animal "strings" to meet the needs of the Zoo.
7. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. 
8. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 



SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training in one or more of the following areas. Only persons possessing the following as of the close of the filing period may be considered for appointment to fill such positions.
 
1. Six months of full-time paid experience in the care of reptiles, amphibians, fish and/or invertebrate, including hands-on work or training in working with venomous and/or poisonous species, at an accredited or licensed facility such as a college, venom laboratory, zoo, or aquarium.
2. Six months of full-time paid experience in training birds for free-flight behaviors and/or falconry experience. 
3. Six months full-time paid experience in the care of exotic birds, including experience with propagation, artificial incubation of eggs and/or hand-rearing of chicks, at a zoo, aquarium or other accredited or licensed public or private facility.
4. Six months of full-time paid experience working with and/or training African and/or Asian elephants at a zoo, aquarium or other professional accredited or licensed public or private facility.
5. Six months of full-time paid experience in designing and refining enrichment furniture/devices for exotic animals.

Applicants who wish to be considered for any of the above selective certification area(s) must respond to the selective certification question(s) located within the Supplemental Questions section of the on-line application at the time of filing. Responses to the selective certification question(s) will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation for those candidates who meet the minimum requirements. The expert review panel will determine if a candidate meets the selective certification criteria based on an assessment of the candidate's response(s) to the question(s). 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins also are available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified applicants file for this examination, each applicant's qualifications for the position of Animal Keeper may be evaluated based on the applicants Qualifications Questionnaire. Those applicants considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of an Animal Keeper based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review, will continue in the selection process.















SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
							          Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Judgment and Decision Making, Attention to Detail, Interpersonal Skills, Teamwork, Oral Communication, Written Communication, Safety Focus, including: the safe and proper use and storage of commercial cleaning compounds and chemicals used to clean zoo strings; common hazards of working with zoo animals, such as the recognition of dangerous behavior in animals; exhibit maintenance assessment and enclosure management, such as the recognition of failures in containment; and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: basic animal behaviors, such as natural instinct and/or flight distance; behavioral enrichment techniques and their purpose as they relate to animal care; techniques used to train animals such as operant conditioning; United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) standards pertaining to animal husbandry and domestic and exotic animal care; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities. 

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Animal Keeper.

Prior to the interview, applicants will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of an Animal Keeper. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Please note that applicants must complete the advisory essay and meet minimum qualifications as stated on this bulletin in order to be considered further in the examination process.

The advisory essay will be administered on-line. Applicants invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps needed to complete the on-line advisory essay. Applicants who fail to complete the on-line advisory essay may be disqualified. It is anticipated that the on-line advisory essay will be administered between OCTOBER 15, 2018 and OCTOBER 22, 2018. 

The interviews, which will be held in Los Angeles, are anticipated to begin during the period of NOVEMBER 26, 2018 to DECEMBER 7, 2018. Candidates invited to participate in the in-person interview will be required to self-schedule themselves for a specific date and time, and may choose to request to complete the interview on an electronic device (i.e., computer, mobile device, tablet, etc.) using the video messaging program Skype. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to self-schedule themselves and, if desired, how to request to complete their interview using Skype. Candidates will be required to self-schedule themselves by the date provided in the instructions sent to them via email. Candidates that do not self-schedule themselves within the required time will not be considered further in this examination.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the advisory essay will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 4304. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08-31-18

Class Code 4304. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08-31-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to:  http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 

