APPRENTICE MACHINIST
     Class Code:       3764
Open Date:  07-15-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$69,655 to $89,544

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Apprentice Machinist works as an apprentice under close supervision, assisting journey-level machinists and receiving on-the-job instruction in using precision hand and machine tools in the repair, rebuilding, and dismantling, fabrication, and installation of machinery and equipment.
 
REQUIREMENTS

1. Eight months of full-time paid experience as a mechanical helper in the mechanical, machining,  or metal trades; or
2. One year of coursework in machine tool or metal trade at a high school or trade school level.  One Year of coursework is equivalent to two semester or three quarters ; or
3. Completion of eight months in the Utility Pre-Craft Trainee training program sponsored by the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power.

NOTES:

1. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #2, must list their school name and location, course titles with the number of semester or quarter units and completion dates on the Education section of the application.  The machine tool course must cover shop and safety practices as well as operation of machine tools.  
3. Some Electrical Craft Helper (ECH) positions may qualify. Applicants using their ECH experience to qualify MUST submit with the application a City of Los Angeles "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form with the required signatures, verifying their experience assisting Electrical Mechanics in installation and overhaul of electrical and mechanical equipment, and steel erection installation. The VWE form should indicate the type of work performed and the amount of time spent performing such work. The form may be downloaded at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf or may be obtained at the Personnel Department, 700 East Temple Street, Room 100, Los Angeles, California 90012. Applicants may attach the completed VWE form to their on-line application at the time of filing or will have seven (7) calendar days from the on-line submission date to submit a copy of their completed VWE form to: Personnel Department, 700 East Temple Street, Room 100, Los Angeles, California 90012. Applicants using their ECH experience who fail to submit their VWE form within the time required will not be considered further and their applications will not be processed.
4. All positions in this class have been designated as temporary training positions in accordance with Civil Service Rule 5.30.  Employment is limited to four years during which time the Apprentice is expected to qualify for promotion to the journey-level class.



WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from July 15, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 
SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination score will be based entirely on a multiple choice written test in which candidates may be examined for knowledge of: basic mechanics; the use, function, and identification of machinist tools; basic arithmetic, including basic algebra; trade terminology; safety practices common to the trade; and the ability to: read and interpret diagrams and blueprints of machinery and equipment; understand written and oral communication; establish and maintain good relationships with supervisors and fellow workers; use personal computers and knowledge of basic software applications necessary for performing work; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be held in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2016 in Los Angeles.

NOTES:
	
1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
8. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH
 ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3764 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 01-23-09

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


Class Code 3764 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07-15-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


