APPRENTICE - METAL TRADES
     Class Code:       3789
Open Date:  07-08-16
				    (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$63,036 to $81,056; $65,333 to $84,000; and $66,690 to $85,754  

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change and may vary depending on the individual Apprenticeship Program. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Apprentice - Metal Trades works as an apprentice in a specific metal trade, receives on-the-job training assisting a journey-level Sheet Metal Worker, Structural Steel Shop Worker, Blacksmith, Welder, or Auto Body Builder and Repairer; attends approved classroom instruction during off duty hours.
 
REQUIREMENTS

1. Eight months of full-time paid experience assisting in the performance of mechanical, machining, or metal trades; or
2. One year of coursework in a metal trade or machine tool at the high school or trade school level.  One year of coursework is equivalent to two semesters or three quarters; or
3. Completion of eight months in the Utility Pre-Craft Trainee training program sponsored by the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power.

NOTES:

1. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #2, must list their school name and location, course titles with the number of semester or quarter units and completion dates in the text box which will appear in the Supplemental Questions section of the on-line application.  
3. Some Electrical Craft Helper (ECH) positions may qualify. Applicants using their ECH experience to qualify MUST submit with the application a City of Los Angeles "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form with the required signatures, verifying their experience assisting Electrical Mechanics in installation and overhaul of electrical and mechanical equipment, and steel erection installation. The VWE form should indicate the type of work performed and the amount of time spent performing such work. The form may be downloaded at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf or may be obtained at the Personnel Department, 700 East Temple Street, Room 100, Los Angles, California 90012. Applicants may attach the completed VWE form to their on-line application at the time of filing or will have seven (7) calendar days from the on-line submission date to submit a copy of their completed VWE form to: Personnel Department, 700 East Temple Street, Room 100, Los Angles, California 90012. Applicants using their ECH experience who fail to submit their VWE form within the time required will not be considered further and their application will not be processed.  
4. All positions in this class have been designated as temporary training positions in accordance with Civil Service Rule 5.30.  Employment is limited according to the individual Apprenticeship Program to either three or four years.  During that time the apprentice is expected to qualify for promotion to the journey-level class.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JULY 21, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the multiple-choice test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from July 8, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

 SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Multiple-Choice Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist of a multiple-choice test administered on a computer.  In the multiple-choice test, the following competencies may be evaluated: reading comprehension, mathematics, safety focus, equipment operation, mechanical aptitude, interpersonal skills, and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/jobanalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Apprentice - Metal Trades.

The multiple-choice test will be administered on a computer during a single half-day session held on SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2016. Candidates invited to participate in the multiple-choice test will be required to self-schedule themselves for a specific time and location. The testing locations will be available throughout the Los Angeles Metropolitan area and within and outside the state of California. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to self-schedule themselves, and will be required to do so by MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2016. Candidates that do not self-schedule themselves within the required time will not be considered further in this examination.

NOTES:
	
1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20 the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.  
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
5. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit as indicated above, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protest as provided in 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
 INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 3789 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07-08-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


