AQUATIC DIRECTOR 
                                                                                                    Class Code:       2419
                                                                                                    Open Date:  08-25-17
Revised: 09-07-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY	

$74,082 to $89,596

NOTE: 

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Aquatic Director plans, organizes, directs, and supervises the operation of a comprehensive aquatics program associated with public pools and open water facilities on a City-wide basis.
 
REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university; and
2. Two years of full-time paid professional experience at the level of an Aquatic Facility Manager supervising lifeguards, overseeing and/or planning programs, working with community-based organizations, and ensuring public or patron safety.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application form, each applicant is required to complete the Aquatic Director Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Aquatic Director Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Question Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed. 
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.   However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. For qualifying work experience gained outside the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position.  Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
4. A current American Red Cross Standard First Aid Instructor Certificate issued by the American Red Cross; a current Water Safety Instructor Certificate issued by the American Red Cross or the Y.M.C.A.; and a current Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation Instructor Certificate issued by the American Red Cross are required prior to appointment.
5. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
6. Upon appointment, an Aquatic Director will be required to provide an automobile, properly insured, for use in City service. Mileage will be paid in accordance with established rates. 
7. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency.  A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. 
8. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide proof of qualifying degree.
9. Every candidate that is scheduled for a civil service interview will be required to complete their interview on an electronic device (i.e., computer, mobile device, tablet, etc.) using the video messaging program Skype. In order to use Skype you must have the following program and equipment prior to your scheduled interview date and time: an up-to-date electronic device that meets the minimum system requirements to run Skype, the latest version of Skype downloaded on your device (please go to http://www.skype.com/en/ and click the download Skype icon), internet connection (a high-speed broadband connection is recommended), a built-in or external webcam (high-quality or HD webcam is recommended), and a microphone and speakers (built-in or external). Please visit https://support.skype.com/en/faq/FA10328/what-are-the-system-requirements-for-skype in order to view the system requirements for running Skype on different operating systems. You may also visit https://support.skype.com/en/faq/FA597/what-do-i-need-to-make-a-video-call for more details on what you will need in order to make a video call, for information about call and video quality, and to determine if your computer meets the hardware requirements. If you need any additional help using Skype please visit https://support.skype.com/en/. On the support webpage some helpful links can be found under the headings: Video calling and Skype for devices. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs  for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from August 25, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW 

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Aquatic Director may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of an Aquatic Director, based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review, will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 and the qualifications review as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and professional development as they have provided knowledge of: principles, practices, and techniques used to plan and direct a large public aquatic program and its operation sufficient to provide customer service that meets the needs of the community; safety principles, practices, rules and regulations including Cal/OSHA, the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Public Health, and the Consumer Product Safety Commission sufficient to implement public safety and prepare facilities for inspection; supervisory principles, practices, and techniques including directing, assigning, motivating, in-service training, counseling, disciplining, commending and evaluating the work of subordinates; sound managerial and personnel management techniques and practices, including ability to prioritize and delegate tasks to subordinates based on divisional needs, and apply Equal Employment Opportunity principles; and the ability to coordinate, direct, and supervise a large public aquatic operation, including aquatic programming, competition, lifeguard programs, grant-funded and small craft programs; prepare a budget for a large public aquatic program; communicate in a clear, concise, effective, and persuasive manner sufficient to speak before groups or on a one-to-one basis; deal tactfully and effectively with subordinates, management, patrons and others; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Additionally, the interview board will consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire in their overall evaluation of the candidates' qualifications. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date and time of the interview. All candidates that are scheduled for an interview will be required to complete the interview on an electronic device (i.e., computer, mobile device, tablet, etc.) using the video messaging program Skype. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of NOVEMBER 27, 2017 to DECEMBER 8, 2017.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
6. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidate's City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 2419 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08-25-17 REV 09-07-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 



