AQUEDUCT AND RESERVOIR KEEPER       
Class Code:       5813
Open Date:  06-30-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$55,415 to $68,841; $61,491 to $76,379; $64,352 to $79,949 

NOTES:  

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade position.

DUTIES

An Aqueduct and Reservoir Keeper patrols and inspects a reservoir, a section of an aqueduct, or water shed to locate actual or potentially unsafe or unsanitary conditions; operates gates and valves as instructed to control the flow of water; monitors pressure, flow and various alarm systems; operates remote valves through electrical control panels; and maintains reservoir grounds.

VACANCIES

It is expected that most appointments made from the eligible list resulting from this examination will be to positions that are located in the Owens Valley near Bishop, Independence, and Lone Pine, California and Antelope Valley near Mojave, California.

NOTE:  

Some positions in the Owens Valley may require at least one year of data entry experience.

REQUIREMENTS/ MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience with water systems facilities in construction, maintenance, or operations; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience operating or maintaining large irrigation systems.

PROCESS NOTES 	

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Candidates must possess and maintain the physical stamina and agility to be able to climb ladders, walk on top of pipelines and work in cramped and confined spaces.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 


NOTE:

 Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JULY 13, 2017.



In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from June 30, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

This examination will consist entirely of a written test comprised of multiple-choice questions, in which candidates may be examined for knowledge of:  operation, function, and nomenclature of equipment including gates, screen systems, pumps, drainage systems, irrigation systems, tower gates, and related equipment and facilities  elementary hydraulics theory involving the flow and storage of water as well as techniques for measuring water flow and pressure stage capacity;  procedures for reading and interpreting various instruments such as flow meters, manometers, staff gauges, pressure gauges, and miscellaneous weather gauges;  elementary mathematics such as basic algebra, adding, subtracting, multiplying, dividing, and measurement and unit conversion;  safety procedures and practices including first aid, accident prevention, firefighting techniques, safe driving and boating techniques, applicable Cal/OSHA and DWP safety laws, rules, and lock out and tag out procedures supervision including planning and directing the work of subordinates and providing instructions techniques for relating effectively to the public; and the ability to: complete and maintain logs and records; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities; ability to read and interpret prints for piping system.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2017 in Los Angeles and Bishop, California.  

NOTES:

1.   This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2.    As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
3.     Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4.     The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.  
5.     A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6.     In conjunction with Civil Service rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
7.     In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 5813 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06-30-17 

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

