ARCHITECTURAL DRAFTING TECHNICIAN

Class Code:      7922
Open Date: 08-04-17
                                                                                                                                                                  Revised 08-17-17
                                                                     (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY
 
$50,759 to $74,228
The salary range for positions in the Harbor Department is $55,269 to $80,826
The salary ranges for positions in the Department of Water and Power are $66,607 to $82,747 and $70,804 to $87,988

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Architectural Drafting Technician performs responsible sub-professional architectural work consisting of drafting, tracing, sketching, and computing, in the preparation of architectural and structural plans and designs.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS


1. Two years of full-time paid drafting experience, one year of which was in architectural computer aided drafting and design work (CADD); or
2. One year of full-time paid architectural drafting experience and satisfactory completion of 6 semester or 9 quarter units in architectural drafting or design utilizing CADD systems, and 6 semester or 9 quarter units in mathematics at an accredited  college, university, or trade school.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Candidates qualifying under Requirement #2 must list the school name and location, course title with the number of semester or quarter units, and completion dates in the Supplemental Questions section of the application.
2. Candidates who lack six months or less of the required experience or college education may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience or education requirement is met.
3. A strong background in trigonometry is especially desired.
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license.  Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency.  A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training in one or more of the following areas.  Only persons possessing AutoCAD Civil 3D, Autodesk Revit, Bentley Suite Applications, and/or MicroStation system skills, training, or experience at the time of filing may be considered for appointment to fill such positions.

1. Applicants who have proficiency in AutoCAD Civil 3D, Autodesk Revit, Bentley Suite Applications, and/or MicroStation must indicate      this on their City application to be eligible for selective certification.
2. Applicants who indicate on their City application possession of skills, training or experience with either AutoCAD Civil 3D, Autodesk Revit, Bentley Suite Applications, and/or MicroStation may be required to participate in a performance test at the time of certification.  In the performance test, candidates may be required to demonstrate their knowledge of and proficiency in the use of AutoCAD Civil 3D, Autodesk Revit, Bentley Suite Applications, and/or MicroStation. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.


NOTES:

1. All application materials must be completed at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.
2. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter if you apply on-line.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, AUGUST 24, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from August 4, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying
                                        Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying written test and interview. In the qualifying written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: methods, equipment, drafting tools, and materials used in structural/architectural drafting, including computer aided drafting and design (CADD); principles and capabilities of computer aided drafting and design (CADD); details, drafting conventions, and symbols used in different types of drawings; arithmetic, algebra, geometry, trigonometry, and data tables as it applies to structural steel calculations and reinforced concrete construction;  national and local standards and codes as defined by regulatory agencies such as American National Standard Institute, State Building Codes, Los Angeles Building Codes, American with Disabilities Act (ADA), Cal/OSHA Guide,  International Building Code, Architectural Barriers Laws and Interpretive Manuals; safety policies, precautions and procedures as defined by local, state, and federal agencies; and the ability to identify potential problem areas in design and construction as relating to details that appear in elevations, schematics, plans, and diagrams; read, interpret, and prepare construction drawings, specifications, sketches, plans, layouts, including floor and foundation plans, elevations, sections, erection plans and fabrication detail; draw and interpret construction drawings; assemble, prepare, and interpret charts, graphs, calculations, and tables; create drawings using CADD system and a variety of computer graphic and office application software; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

The Architectural Drafting Technician and Civil Engineering Drafting Technician written test may contain common test questions and will be administered concurrently.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the qualifying written test, which will be held in a single half-day session in Los Angeles, on SATURDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2017.

Passing Score for the Qualifying Written Test 

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying written test may be set either above or below 70%. 

Candidates who achieve a passing score on the qualifying written multiple choice test will be invited to participate in the interview.

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: methods, equipment, drafting tools, and materials used in structural/architectural drafting, including computer aided drafting and design  (CADD); details, drafting conventions and symbols used in different types of drawings; principles and capabilities of computer aided drafting and design (CADD) and office application software; and the ability to identify potential problem areas in design and construction as related to details that appear in elevations, schematics, plans, and diagrams; draw and interpret construction drawings; read, interpret, and prepare construction drawings, specifications, sketches, plans, layouts, including floor and foundation plans, elevations, sections, erection plans and fabrication detail; draw and interpret construction drawings; assemble, prepare, and interpret charts, graphs, calculations, and tables; create drawings using CADD system and a variety of computer graphic and office application software; deal tactfully, persuasively, and effectively with co-workers, managers, other department and outside representatives; communicate orally on a one-to-one basis to obtain information, explain procedures, methods of performing tasks, and persuade others to accept opinion and policy; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

As part of the interview, candidates will also be required to submit to the interviewers samples of their drafting work.  While the interviewers will not assign a separate score to the samples, the interviewers will consider the quality of the samples in their overall evaluations of the candidates' job qualifications.  Candidates should expect the interviewers to discuss the samples with them during their interviews.  All samples will be returned to the candidates after the conclusion of their interviews.  Specific information regarding the drafting samples to be presented to the interview board will be mailed to those candidates who attain a passing score on the qualifying written test.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.

NOTES:
	
1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Rule 4.20, the qualifying written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. Based on City policy, before being hired in this position, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol-screening test.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.

Notice: 

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position. 

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7922 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08-04-17 REV 08-17-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

Class Code 1645. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 02-18-05 



