



ART CURATOR
Class Code:       2448
Open Date:  07-15-16
REVISED: 07-28-16
    (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$50,342 to $73,581

     NOTE:
     
The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Art Curator performs professional curatorial and educational work at the City's art galleries, and with the City's permanent art collection; secures, arranges, installs and maintains art exhibitions; designs exhibitions; solicits donations and effects loans from other institutions; provides technical advice; prepares educational material to describe and publicize exhibits; plans corollary educational programming and events for the public; arranges for documentation of events related to exhibitions; supervises development, installation and maintenance of exhibitions; prepares exhibition budgets and promotes interest in the City's visual arts program.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. A master's degree from an accredited four-year college or university majoring in visual arts such as Art, Art History, Museum Studies or a closely related field and two years of full-time paid professional art curatorial experience at a museum or nonprofit art gallery; or
2. A bachelor's degree from an accredited four-year college or university majoring in visual arts such as Art, Art History, Museum Studies or a closely related field and three years of full-time paid professional art curatorial experience at a museum or nonprofit art gallery.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants lacking six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree. 
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview portion of this examination in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from July 15, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:  Essay. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
                                        Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: judgment and decision making, innovation, supervision, teamwork, written communication, project management, community relations, and job knowledge including knowledge of: art works in various media such as painting, photography, and/or new genres sufficient to evaluate the technical skill and thematic content of said art works and determine the level of quality displayed as well as a work's potential use in museum exhibitions, projects, or programs; media arts (e.g., film making, video and audio recording, and animation), new genres (e.g., installation, performances, and other activities) which explore non-traditional formats and processes and the history and technical skill requirements of visual arts (particularly contemporary) (e.g., painting, sculpture, photography, drawing, printmaking, printing, crafts, and/or new genres) sufficient to provide a context in which the quality and importance of an individual work of art or group of works can be judged; contemporary art industry and its current trends sufficient to review an artist's resume and exhibition history in a way which critically evaluates characteristics such as commitment to the field, how the artist's work is viewed by others, and the degree to which the individual's work is compatible with current or future exhibition plans; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

On the same day as the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of an Art Curator. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory essay may be disqualified. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their advisory essay responses.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/jobanalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Art Curator.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of SEPTEMBER 12, 2016 to SEPTEMBER 23, 2016.  

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2.		As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
6. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidate's employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that minimum requirements are met. 

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.
THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 2448 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07-15-16 REV 07-28-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

