ART CENTER DIRECTOR
Class Code:	     2478
Open Date:  05-30-14
ANNUAL SALARY

$51,281 to $63,725; $59,361 to $73,769; and $73,748 to $91,642

NOTE:

Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in one of the lower pay grades.

DUTIES

An Art Center Director assigns, reviews and evaluates the work of art instructors and administrative support staff engaged in conducting community arts programs; acts as the administrative head performing responsible work in connection with administrative, fiscal and personnel matters of the art center; may act as an arts instructor; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Three years of professional experience directing and coordinating an arts program with responsibility for supervising instructors and other personnel; or 
2. Five years of experience instructing classes in the arts such as drawing, painting, sculpture, ceramics, photography, theater arts, dance, music, media arts, jewelry and other arts-related disciplines.

NOTES:

1. One year of experience equals 2,080 hours.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license prior to appointment. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if within the past 36 months they were convicted of a major moving violation, such as driving under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs, and may be disqualified if there are three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents within the past 36 months.
3. Applicants who are currently employed with the City of Los Angeles, excluding Art Instructors, filing under Requirement #2 must submit a City of Los Angeles "Verification of Work Experience" form, which must also indicate the percentage of time performing the work that is claimed as qualifying experience. The form may be downloaded at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf  or may be obtained at the Personnel Department, Room 100, 700 E. Temple Street, Los Angeles, CA 90012. Applicants may attach the completed VWE form to their on-line application at the time of filing or will have seven (7) calendar days from the on-line submission date to submit a copy of their completed VWE form to: Personnel Department, Room 100, 700 E. Temple Street, Los Angeles, CA 90012. Applicants who fail to submit a copy of their VWE form within the time required will not be considered candidates in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
4. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from a recognized four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations.

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be completed at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination. 


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JUNE 12, 2014.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from June 12, 2014 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 
	
EXPERT REVIEW COMMITTEE

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, an expert review committee may be assembled to evaluate each candidate's qualification for the position of Art Center Director. In this evaluation, the expert review committee will assess each candidate's training and experience based upon the information in the candidate's City employment application. Those candidates considered by the expert review committee as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of an Art Center Director, based solely on the information presented to the committee, will be invited to participate in the interview.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:	Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory  
									Interview . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination score will be based entirely on an evaluation of personal and professional qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the adequacy of experience, training, and background as they have provided the necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities to effectively perform the duties of an Arts Center Director, and knowledge of: community and multi-cultural activities including the methods and techniques of developing, planning, and conducting art and community activities; effective safety practices and principles, supervisory principles and practices including planning, delegating, and controlling subordinates' work, as well as training, instructing, evaluating, counseling, discipline, and motivating staff; Equal Employment Opportunity principles and practices; methods used in budgeting, personnel administration, organization, and management; and the ability to apply sound supervisory principles and techniques including establishing and maintaining a work environment to enhance both employee morale and productivity; work effectively with employees, community groups, senior citizens, youth, and the public; communicate effectively orally and in writing; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

At the time of the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the job duties and responsibilities of an Art Center Director. This material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate's qualifications. Candidates will receive additional information about the advisory essay when scheduled for the interview.

Candidates will be notified by mail of the date, time, and location of the interview which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of AUGUST 4, 2014 to AUGUST 15, 2014.

NOTES:

1. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive higher scores, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.

NOTICE:
  
If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.


THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 2478  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05-30-14

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

