ASSISTANT RETIREMENT PLAN MANAGER

     Class Code:        9415
     Open Date:   05-06-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$111,749 to $159,022
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $151,902 to $188,713

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

An Assistant Retirement Plan Manager assists a Retirement Plan Manager in directing and managing the daily activities of a retirement or pension system. 

REQUIREMENTS

1.	Two years of full-time paid professional experience in a position at the level of Senior Management Analyst II in institutional investing, administrative analysis, benefits administration, accounting, or personnel administration; or
2.	Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with at least 24 semester or 36 quarter units completed in finance, accounting, or business administration; and three years of full-time paid professional experience supervising administrative or professional staff engaged in retirement system benefits administration, institutional investing, or accounting for a public or private pension plan. 

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Assistant Retirement Plan Manager Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Assistant Retirement Plan Manager Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement has been met.
3. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible  for hire if their record within the past 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position.  Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2016.
In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from May 6, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Assistant Retirement Plan Manager may be evaluated based on the candidate's responses to the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of an Assistant Retirement Plan Manager based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:   Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
       Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of your experience and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and professional qualifications which have provided the knowledge of: principles, practices, techniques, and trends of public retirement and pension systems, including the legal requirements, provisions of City Charter and City Attorney's opinions, actuarial concepts, and objectives facing such systems; principles, practices, and techniques of organization, management, and financial administration; computer systems and administrative systems analysis; accounting and City budget procedures; City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity; personnel transactions; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending, and evaluating the work of subordinates; the ability to direct and coordinate the work of groups of employees engaged in a variety of retirement system benefits; communicate, both orally and in writing, in a clear, concise and effective manner; interact  effectively with public officials, outside agencies and others; and other skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

The Qualifications Questionnaire will not be separately scored, but will be considered by the interview board in evaluating each candidate's qualifications. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board.

Candidates will be required to prepare some written material on a topic related to the duties and responsibilities of an Assistant Retirement Plan Manager.  This essay material will not be scored separately, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate.  Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their responses.  

Candidates must complete the advisory essay. Those who do not complete the advisory essay will not be invited to the interview and will be considered to have failed the entire examination. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the advisory essay, which will be held in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, JULY 16, 2016, in Los Angeles.     

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of AUGUST 8, 2016 to AUGUST 19, 2016. 

NOTES:

1. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
2. Promotional candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those classes which provide qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of the candidates.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is needed in order to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit as indicated above, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
8. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates. 
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined.  Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23 as applicable and within the required timeframe; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the list.


Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 9415 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05-06-16


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

