ASSISTANT SIGNAL SYSTEMS ELECTRICIAN

Class Code:       3818
Open Date:   07-31-15
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$70,094 (flat-rated)

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES
       
An Assistant Signal Systems Electrician assists a Signal Systems Electrician in installing, repairing, maintaining, and modifying electric and microprocessor based traffic signal control devices, and video and computer communication systems.

REQUIREMENTS

1.		One year of full-time paid experience as a helper in electrical or electronic work and successful completion of 18 semester or 24 quarter units in electrical or electronics from an accredited college or trade school; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience as a helper in electrical or electronic work and successful completion of 9 semester units or 12 quarter units in electrical or electronics from an accredited college or trade school; or
3. Three years of full-time paid experience as a helper in electrical or electronic work and successful completion of 6 semester or 8 quarter units in electrical or electronics from an accredited college or trade school.

NOTES:

1. All candidates must list their school name and location, course title with the number of semester or quarter units, and completion dates in the City application. 
2. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
3. Some positions may require a valid California Class B driver's license prior to appointment.  A Class B license, a Rubber-Tired Tractor B Operator's license and a Hydrocrane Operator's license may be required for some positions within the first six months of employment. Candidates for such positions may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). For positions requiring a valid California Class B driver's license, candidates must submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1808.1.
4. A recognized apprenticeship as an Electrician may be substituted for the required course work.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cmf for Open Competitive Examinations and at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE
Filing may close without prior notice after a sufficient number of applications are received. For administrative purposes, filing may close periodically and reopen the following day. 

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Written Test. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a weighted written test. In the weighted written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, the following competencies may be evaluated: Reading Comprehension; Safety Focus; Job Knowledge; Teamwork; and Follow Written Instructions. 

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/jobanalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Assistant Signal Systems Electrician.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session in Los Angeles. The first date scheduled for the written test is on SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2015. 

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. You may take the test only once every 365 days during the administration of this examination.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
7. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
8. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 
10. Your rank on the employment list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of this examination are merged onto one list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.












Class Code 3818 CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07-31-15


