ASSISTANT AIRPORT MANAGER

Class Code:        7259
  Open Date:   01-26-18
 																					 (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$106,404 to $155,556

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

Under the direction of a Deputy Executive Director or an Airport Manager, directs a staff of management, professional, technical, and/or supervisory construction and maintenance personnel engaged in a wide range of airport operations, maintenance, construction, project management or special programs and performs other duties related to airport landside and airfield management; directs staff that are engaged in enforcing airport ground policies, procedures and airport regulations; has supervisory responsibilities for construction activities on the airfield and in terminals; develops and periodically updates airport standard operating procedures and refine protocols; provides legislative, strategic planning, traveling public and airport tenant support activities at Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA); advises LAWA management and represents the department on various airport related matters; personally performs, or performs through subordinate supervisors, the more difficult work; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; and does related work. 

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Four years of full-time paid experience with LAWA in a class at the level of Senior Management Analyst performing duties in the following areas: airport and maintenance operations; landside and airfield operations; construction; project management; human resources management; public and/or community relations programs; financial, budgetary, procurement compliance, or contract management; or airport and commercial development matters, or
2. For qualifying experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, a four-year degree from an accredited college or university in Public Administration, Business Administration, Aviation Management, Airport Administration or related subject and four years of full-time paid professional experience as a second-level supervisor performing the above stated duties at a medium or large hub commercial airport (as defined by the Federal Aviation Administration).

PROCESS NOTE

A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. Online job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2018.



In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from January 26, 2018 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.
        
SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Essay. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
																			Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an interview.  In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated:  Analytical Ability, Leadership, Oral Communication, Project Management, Supervision, Teamwork, Written Communication, and Job Knowledge including knowledge of: principles and practices of the operation and management of airport facilities; planning, organizing, directing, and coordinating the activities of various airport personnel groups; laws relating to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transportation Security Administration (TSA), and United States Customs and Border Protection (CBP); emergency response procedures included the Emergency Management System (EMS), Incident Command System (ICS), National Incident Management System (NIMS), and Department Operations Center (DOC); pertinent laws, regulations, and policies relating to labor and employee relations; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Assistant Airport Manager.

Prior to the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of an Assistant Airport Manager. This material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. The Advisory Essay will be administered online. Candidates invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to complete the online Advisory Essay, and will be required to do so by the date provided in the instructions sent to them via email. Candidates who fail to complete the online Advisory Essay may be disqualified. It is anticipated that the online advisory essay will be administered February 19, 2018 to February 26, 2018.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of APRIL 2, 2018 to APRIL 13, 2018.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.  
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 7259 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .01-26-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


