AUDIO VISUAL TECHNICIAN
Class Code:       6147
Open Date:  06-20-14
ANNUAL SALARY 

$62,076 to $77,130
The salary ranges for the Department of Water and Power are $55,612 to $68,465 and $74,040 to $85,065.

NOTE:

For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

An Audio Visual Technician performs a variety of technical audio visual duties including producing and editing various training and informational videos and E-learning courses; and operates and maintains audio visual equipment.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Three years of full-time paid experience in the development and preparation of audio visual materials such as film strips, overhead transparencies, slide shows, video production, PowerPoint presentation, or the equivalent medium prepared on a computer then shown on a screen or video monitor. Experience must include the operation, use, and care of audio visual equipment such as speakers, amplifiers, mixers, microphones, cables, and recording or playback devices, projection screens, video monitors, data projectors, video editing software, or video cameras in the production of audio visual materials or live events.
2. Six semester units or nine quarter units from a recognized two-year or four-year college or university in the production, evaluation, development or care of audio visual materials and equipment may be substituted for each six-month period of experience lacking up to a maximum of two years.

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application form, each applicant is required to complete the Audio Visual Technician Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Audio Visual Technician Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Question Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed. 
2. For some positions, college course work or experience in Electronic News Gathering (ENG) and Master Control Room operations is highly desired.
3. Candidates who lack six months or less of the required experience stated in Requirement Number 1 may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
4. Persons filing under Requirement Number 2 must list on their application the course titles, number of units for each course and the completion dates for education used to fulfill the requirement.
5. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualification Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, JULY 3, 2014.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from June 20, 2014 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

EXPERT REVIEW COMMITTEE

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, an Expert Review Committee may be assembled to evaluate each candidate's qualification for the position of Audio Visual Technician. In this evaluation, the Expert Review Committee will assess each candidate's training and experience based upon the information in the candidate's City employment application and the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered by the Expert Review Committee as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of an Audio Visual Technician, based solely on the information presented to the committee, will be invited to participate in the interview.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100% 

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of training, experience, and personal and professional qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the candidate's knowledge of: the development, production, and editing techniques used in creating video and audio presentations, including the use of linear and non-linear editing systems; cable use, microphone use, and 3-point lighting techniques; various media set-up and connection procedures used to facilitate large audience presentations; advantages and disadvantages and costs associated with media used in public relations and recruitment; ability to: independently set-up and operate audio and visual equipment including wave form monitors, vector scopes, and digital cameras with light attachment for projection presentations; deal tactfully and effectively with technical and non-technical personnel and actors to plan and produce video and audio presentations; and other necessary knowledge, skills and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of AUGUST 4, 2014 to AUGUST 15, 2014.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY 
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 6147 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06-20-14


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

