
 


AUTO ELECTRICIAN                 
Class Code:       3707
Open Date:  05-22-15
                                                                     (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
                                                        
ANNUAL SALARY

$71,221 (flat-rated) and $77,026 (flat-rated)
The salary range in the Department of Water and Power is $68,924 to $85,628.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Auto Electrician diagnoses, tests, adjusts and repairs automotive, truck and construction equipment, electrical and fuel supply parts, systems and accessories.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Completion of a recognized apprenticeship as an auto electrician; or
2. Five years of full-time paid experience performing auto electrical work.

Completion of an 18-month or longer auto electrical repair program at an accredited institution may be substituted for one year of experience. 

NOTES:  

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience or apprenticeships who are within six months of completion may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met or the apprenticeship has been completed.
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 must submit an apprenticeship certificate. Applicants must attach a copy of this certificate to the on-line application at the time of filing. The certificate must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the certificate. Applicants who fail to submit the apprenticeship certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the on-line application will not be considered further in this examination.  
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 who wish to use their City experience are required to submit a City of Los Angeles Verification of Work Experience (VWE) form within seven (7) calendar days from their on-line submission date. The VWE must indicate the percentage of time performing the work that is claimed as qualifying experience. A copy of the VWE form may be attached to the on-line application at the time of filing or submitted to the Personnel Department at 700 East Temple Street, Room 100, Los Angeles, CA 90012. Applicants who fail to submit a copy of their VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed. 
4. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 who are using the completion of an 18-month or longer auto electrical repair program at an accredited institution must submit a certificate of completion at the time of filing. Applicants must attach a copy of this certificate to the on-line application at the time of filing. The certificate must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the certificate. Applicants who fail to submit the certificate of completion at the time of filing by attaching it to the on-line application will not be considered further in this examination. 
5. Some positions may require a valid California Driver's license prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
6. Some positions may require a valid California Class A or Class B driver's license and a valid medical certificate prior to appointment. For these positions, candidates must submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1808.1. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction or a major moving violation (such as DUI).
7. Please note that qualifying education must be from an institution accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency.  A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited Institutions 08-21-08.pdf.

WHERE TO APPLY
Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations.
NOTE:
Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from May 22, 2015 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JUNE 04, 2015.



SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

In the written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: common automotive terminology; electrical theory, principles, systems and components as they relate to vehicle and equipment repair; principles and operation of gasoline fuel systems, diesel fuel systems, transmissions, and their components; principles of hydraulic systems such as lift gates and other specialized equipment; proper procedures for testing exhaust and emission control components; the operation and servicing of automotive air conditioning systems, components and controls; the function of cooling and heating systems, components, and controls; the functions and operation of power steering systems, charging and starting systems, and their components; supplemental restraint systems; equipment for the purpose of diagnosing faulty vehicle and equipment operation such as ammeter voltmeter resistor (A.V.R), hydrometer, test light, ohm- and volt-meters, alternator/generator test bench, diode tester, and strobe light; general safety standards relating to tools, equipment, storekeeping, and shop areas; basic mathematics including addition, subtraction, multiplication and division of whole numbers, fractions and decimals; the ability to: diagnose antilock brake systems; read and understand written information, technical drawings, and schematics; communicate on a one-to-one basis for the purpose of obtaining information and explaining procedures, policies, and methods of performing tasks; complete written forms such as shop orders and vehicle and equipment work history records; get along with fellow employees; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.
 
Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test which will be held in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, JULY 25, 2015, in Los Angeles.

NOTES:	


1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
3. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure the minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
6. 	A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
8. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.

NOTICE:
If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employment benefits prior to accepting a position. 

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. 
Class Code 3707  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05-22-15



AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

