AUTO BODY BUILDER AND REPAIRER

 				                                               	     Class Code:       3704
					       Open Date:  10-13-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$78,801 and $85,237 (flat-rated)
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $94,607 (flat-rated).
Higher salaries will be paid for night work or work on refuse equipment.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

An Auto Body Builder and Repairer removes, fabricates, installs, remodels, or repairs bodies, frames, and body accessories of automotive equipment; occasionally does minor paint repairs, installs automotive glass and repairs fiberglass body parts.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Completion of a recognized four-year apprenticeship program as an auto body and fender repairer or auto body builder; or
2. Four years of full-time paid experience in the building or repair of auto bodies, or automotive collision repair work; or
3. Satisfactory completion of a two-year program in automotive collision repair from an accredited community college, trade or technical school, and two years of full-time paid experience in the building or repair of auto bodies, or automotive collision repair work.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete an Auto Body Builder and Repairer Qualifications Questionnaire Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Auto Body Builder and Repairer Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
4. Some positions may require a valid California Class B driver's license and a valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). Candidates will be asked to submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1808.1 prior to appointment.
5. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 must submit an Apprenticeship Certificate at the time of filing. The copy of the Certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the Certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the Apprenticeship Certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination. 
6. Applicants who are currently employed with the City of Los Angeles, filing under Requirement #2 or #3 must submit with their application a Verification of Work Experience (VWE) form with the required signatures, verifying their experience in the building or repair of auto bodies, or automotive collision repair work. The VWE form should indicate the type of work performed and the amount of time spent performing such work. This form may be obtained on-line at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf. Applicants may attach the completed form to their online application at the time of filing or will have seven (7) calendar days from the online submission date to email a copy of their completed VWE form, including the required signatures, to per.appdocs@lacity.org. The subject line of your email must include the exam title, your name and indicate it is a VWE. In the body of your email, you must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number and contact phone number. Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
7. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs  for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from October 13, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Auto Body Builder and Repairer may be to evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of an Auto Body Builder and Repairer based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 and qualifications review as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Demonstration of Job Knowledge and Evaluation of General Qualifications by Technical Interview . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .100% 
	
Your examination score will be based entirely on the technical interview.  In the technical interview, emphasis will be placed on the candidate's experience, training, professional development and personal qualifications necessary to perform the duties of an Auto Body Builder and Repairer, including the knowledge of: operation and proper use of hand and power tools and equipment; the techniques, procedures, and processes used in automotive body repair work; the uses and applications of filler material; estimating practices and procedures; methods, materials, and standards used in automotive repair and building work; safe practices and procedures working with a variety of materials; proper rigging practices and procedures; proper set-up and operation of a frame machine rack; the ability to: remove, repair, and install equipment used in automotive work; shape and apply filler materials; lay out sheet metal work using hand tools and precision instruments; prepare metal surfaces and paint repair areas; interpret sketches and plans for the fabrication of automotive bodies and accessories; communicate orally to receive and provide information; deal tactfully and effectively with co-workers and supervisory personnel; identify types of metals and plastic panels and their applications; work under general supervision; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and ability. 

As part of their evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will consider the information in each candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Candidates may expect the panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time and location of the technical interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of DECEMBER 11, 2017 to DECEMBER 22, 2017 in Los Angeles.

NOTES:  

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Based on City policy, before being hired in one of these positions, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol-screening test.
3. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
6. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
7. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
8. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
9. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
10. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.


THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 


Class Code 3704 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-13-17

