AUTO BODY REPAIR SUPERVISOR
Class Code:       3706
Open Date:  05-15-15
                                              (Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$79,406 and $86,171 and $89,470 and $97,655 (flat-rated)
The salary range in the Department of Water and Power is $92,665 to $97,822 and $95,693 to $101,038.

Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
The salary range covers multiple pay grades within the class.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Auto Body Repair Supervisor assigns, reviews and evaluates the work of a group of employees engaged in fabricating, installing, remodeling, or repairing bodies and body accessories of automotive and miscellaneous equipment; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT

Two years of full-time paid experience as an Auto Body Builder and Repairer, or in a class at that level which provides journey-level experience in fabricating, installing, remodeling, or repairing bodies and body accessories of automotive equipment.

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Auto Body Repair Supervisor Application Supplement at the time of filing. The Auto Body Repair Supervisor Application Supplement is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Application Supplement will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the require experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California Class A, B or C driver's license prior to appointment or prior to completion of the probationary period. For positions requiring a valid California Class A or B driver's license, applicants must submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1808.1. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications WILL ONLY BE ACCEPTED ON-LINE. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination. 


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2015.


SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on an evaluation of the nature and adequacy of the candidate's experience, training, and professional development as they have provided the background needed to carry out the duties of an Auto Body Repair Supervisor, including knowledge of: equipment, materials, automotive standards relating to manufacturers' specifications, and procedures related to auto body building, auto body and fender repairing, and auto and metal painting; safety hazards and proper safety procedures, including the handling, use, and storage of materials shown on Safety Data Sheets; supervisory practices, including understanding of equal employment opportunity responsibilities and Memoranda of Understanding applicable to subordinates; departmental purchasing procedures; and the ability to: interact effectively and communicate orally with subordinates, peers, management, vendors, City Officials, and uniformed and non-uniformed personnel; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additionally, the interview board will consider the information in the candidate's Application Supplement in their overall evaluation of the candidates' qualifications. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Application Supplements submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JULY 13 TO JULY 24, 2015.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class. 
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
8. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that minimum qualifications have been met. 

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3706 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  05-15-15

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

