BACKGROUND INVESTIGATOR

Class Code:        1764
																										                Open Date:    10-26-18
 (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$62,514 to $91,370; $66,106 to $96,653; and $74,792 to $109,369

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade position.

DUTIES

A Background Investigator is a civilian employee who conducts and compiles personal and professional background investigations for public safety candidates by interviewing employers, co-workers, neighbors, law enforcement officials, military personnel, members of the candidate's family, and personal references; prepares reports on findings; makes recommendations as to background findings; and performs other related duties.  Background Investigators in the higher pay grades may supervise or act as a lead worker to staff involved in the above duties.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Five years of full-time paid experience within the last ten years as a police officer;  or
2. 1000 cumulative hours of part-time paid experience within the last five years as a Background Investigator employed by the City of Los Angeles.

PROCESS NOTES

1. A valid California Driver's license is required and must be maintained through the course of employment.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
2. Experience in background investigations for employment, internal affairs investigations, in-depth investigations of criminal matters or comprehensive investigations of traffic-related incidents is desired. 
3. Upon appointment, Background investigators employed by the Personnel Department will be required to provide an automobile, properly insured, for use in City service.  Mileage will be paid in accordance with established rates.
4. Some initial appointments are anticipated to be made on a part-time basis. 
5. Work location is Downtown Los Angeles. However, Background Investigators in the course of performing field investigations will be required to drive to areas outside of downtown Los Angeles.
6. Prior to appointment, a thorough and comprehensive Background Investigation will be conducted

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will ONLY be accepted ON-LINE.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity   for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

This examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received.  For administrative purposes, filing may close periodically and reopen the following day.  

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from October 26, 2018, in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 
 
SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Evaluation of Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination for Background Investigator will consist entirely of a Training and Experience Questionnaire (T&E). In the T&E, the following competencies may be evaluated: Judgment and Decision Making, Attention to Detail, Fact Finding, Written Communication, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: confidentiality laws such as Officer Bill of Rights, ADA, HIPAA and principles and practices as they apply to personnel records and handling requests for information to ensure the integrity and privacy of candidates background investigation files; interviewing techniques; investigative techniques and concepts of background investigations, and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. The T&E will be administered online. Applicants invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to complete the online T&E. Applicants who fail to complete the online T&E as instructed may be disqualified. It is anticipated that the online T&E will be administered between NOVEMBER 26, 2018 AND DECEMBER 3, 2018. Those applicants selected for subsequent test administrations will be notified by e-mail of the exact date range of the test 

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Background Investigator.

The Training and Experience Questionnaire will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications as described on the Training and Experience Questionnaire.  Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the expert review panel.

NOTES:
 
1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on the bulletin.
4. A final score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list. 
5. You may take this examination once a year (365 calendar days). Your name may be removed from the open competitive eligible list after 180 calendar days.
6.   In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN 
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1764 CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10-26-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER



