BOILERMAKER
Class Code:       3735
Open Date:  11-07-14
ANNUAL SALARY

The salary range for positions in the Department of Water and Power is $96,695.25 (flat-rated).

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Boilermaker performs skilled work in fabrication, construction, assembly, installation, repair and maintenance of pressure vessels and auxiliary equipment, penstocks, tanks, ducts boilers, heat exchangers, and other pressure vessels and accessories.

REQUIREMENTS

1.  Completion of a recognized apprenticeship as a boilermaker; or 
2.  Six years of full-time paid experience as a boilermaker helper.

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 will have 7 calendar days from the on-line submission date to submit a copy of their apprenticeship certificate. Applicants who fail to submit their apprenticeship certificate within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed. The certificate may be attached to the on-line application at the time of filing or delivered to the Personnel Department at 700 East Temple Street, Room 100, Los Angeles, CA 90012.
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 must submit a copy of their City of Los Angeles "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form. The form may be downloaded at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf or may be obtained at the Personnel Department, Room 100, 700 E. Temple Street, Los Angeles, CA 90012. 
4. Applicants may attach the completed VWE form to their on-line application at the time of filing or will have seven (7) calendar days from the on-line application submission date to submit a copy of their completed VWE form to: Personnel Department, Room 100, 700 E. Temple Street, Los Angeles, CA 90012.  Applicants who fail to submit a copy of their VWE form within the time required will not be considered candidates in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
5. Some positions may require welding certification(s).
6. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may be eligible for appointments to those positions if their record within the last 36 months reflect three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as a DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted online. When you are viewing the online job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. Online job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations.


NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2014.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received.  Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Written .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

In the written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: methods, practices, materials, tools, and equipment used in the fabrication, assembly, installation, and repair of boilers, condensers, drums, heat exchangers, tanks, penstocks, and other pressure vessels made of steel plate; riggings and the erection of scaffolding; acetylene and electric welding; riveting; safety principles and practices in boiler making and boiler repair work; pertinent provisions of the Safety Orders of the California Division of Industrial Safety; the ability to: read, interpret, and work from blue prints and sketches; deal tactfully and effectively with other craft personnel; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be held in a single half-day session in Los Angeles, on SATURDAY, JANUARY 17, 2015.
.
NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Based on City policy, before being hired in this classification, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol-screening test.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list. 

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.




Class Code 3735 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11-07-14

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

