BOILERMAKER SUPERVISOR
Class Code:       3737
Open Date:  10-17-14
ANNUAL SALARY

$88,009 to $109,348

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Boilermaker Supervisor plans, assigns, and reviews the work of employees performing skilled work in fabrication, construction, assembly, installation, repair and maintenance of pressure vessels, penstocks, tanks, ducts, boilers, heat exchangers, and other auxiliary equipment; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques, and fulfills Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) responsibilities and requirements.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Four years of full-time paid experience as a journey-level boilermaker engaged in the assembly, installation, repair and maintenance of boilers and pressure vessels made of steel plate; or
2. Four years of full-time paid experience as a journey-level welder certified under ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code Section IX engaged in the assembly, installation, repair and maintenance of boilers and pressure vessels made of steel plate.

NOTES:

1. Applicants lacking six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if within the past 36 months they were convicted of a major moving violation such as driving under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs, and may be disqualified if there are three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents within the past 36 months.
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 must submit a City of Los Angeles "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form. Applicants required to submit a VWE form will have 7 calendar days from the on-line submission date to submit a copy of their VWE form. Applicants who fail to submit a copy of their VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed. A copy of the VWE form may be attached to the on-line application at the time of filing or delivered to the Personnel Department at 700 East Temple Street, Room 100, Los Angeles, CA 90012. 

WHERE TO APPLY


Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2014.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the candidate's experience and training as it relates to the knowledge of: methods, practices, materials, tools, and equipment used in the fabrication, construction, assembly, installation, repair and maintenance of pressure vessels, boilers, heat exchangers, tanks, ducts, penstocks, and other auxiliary equipment; rigging and scaffolding; acetylene and electric welding; safety principles and practices in boiler making and boiler repair work; pertinent provisions of the Safety Orders of the  California Division of Industrial Safety; laws and regulations related to Equal Employment Opportunity; City personnel rules, policies, and procedures, the ability to: follow oral and written instructions; use hand tools and power tools in boiler making and repair work; read, interpret, and work from blueprints and sketches; instruct, direct, and supervise a small group of Boilermakers, Welders, helpers, and related craft workers; deal tactfully and effectively with other craft personnel; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interviews, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JANUARY 5, 2015 TO JANUARY 16, 2015.

NOTES:

1. Based on City policy, before being hired in this classification, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol-screening test.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.




Class Code 3737 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10-17-14

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

