BUILDING MECHANICAL INSPECTOR

Class Code:       4251
Open Date:  08-28-15
Revised: 08-08-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$83,144 to $100,516 

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 

DUTIES
	
A Building Mechanical Inspector inspects residential construction of two dwelling units or less, accessory buildings, signs and swimming pools to secure conformance to zoning ordinances, building, plumbing, mechanical and electrical codes and approved plans, specifications and standards; investigates all complaints and alleged code violations on all buildings; conducts surveys to identify blight, deterioration, and substandard conditions; issues appropriate orders to comply and citations; and assists in training other inspection employees as required.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Four years of full-time paid experience as a building, construction, plumbing, mechanical, electrical, housing, or combined inspector for or on behalf of a governmental agency engaged in general residential construction; or
2. Four years of full-time paid experience as a licensed general, masonry, plumbing, mechanical, electrical contractor engaged in general residential construction; or
3. Two years of full-time paid experience in carpentry, masonry, electrical, plumbing, or mechanical work, in general residential construction following the completion of a recognized apprenticeship program; or
4. Eight years of full-time paid experience in carpentry, masonry, plumbing, mechanical, electrical, or other construction related craft work in general residential construction; or
5. One year full-time paid experience, as an Assistant Inspector III with the City of Los Angeles.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants filing under Requirement #3 must submit proof of completion of a recognized apprenticeship program indicated in Requirement #3. Applicants must attach a copy of the proof of completion to the on-line application at the time of filing. The requested document(s) must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the document(s) is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the document(s). Applicants who fail to submit the document(s) at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.
2. A valid certification from the International Code Council (ICC) per Article 5.13 of MOU #5 and Assembly Bill AB717 is required within two years from the date of appointment to the class.
3. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Upon appointment, a Building Mechanical Inspector will be required to furnish an automobile, properly insured, for use in City service. Mileage will be paid according to established rates.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin. Applications submitted before the start of the filing period will not be accepted. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE	

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed below:

From 8:00 am Tuesday, November 13, 2018 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, November 15, 2018
From 8:00 am Tuesday, February 12, 2019 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, February 14, 2019
From 8:00 am Tuesday, May 14, 2019 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, May 16, 2019

The examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. Filling periods may change without prior notice or additional dates may be added, as needed, at a later date. For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen on the dates noted in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates.  Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of a multiple-choice written test. In the multiple-choice written test, candidates may be examined on the following competencies: reading comprehension; judgment and decision making; safety focus; job knowledge; and customer service. 

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/JobAnalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Building Mechanical Inspector.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time and location of the written test, which will be held in a single half-day session in Los Angeles. 

NOTES:
	
1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodation to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualification stated on this bulletin.
4. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidate ahead of the promotional candidates.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. Your rank on the eligible list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of this examination are merged onto one list.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code CONT: 4251 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .08-28-15 REV 08-08-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


