BUILDING INSPECTOR

Class Code:       4211
Open Date:  10-19-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$83,144 to $100,516

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Building Inspector inspects commercial and apartment buildings, their appendages, and sites for conformance to building, grading, and zoning laws and regulations and approved plans, specifications, and standards; and assists in training other inspectional employees as required.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Four years of full-time paid experience as a building, construction, housing or combined inspector, engaged in a variety of building structural construction work for or on behalf of a governmental agency; or
2. Four years of full-time paid experience as a licensed general, masonry, concrete, structural steel or framing and rough carpentry contractor engaged in a variety of building structural construction work; or
3. Two years of full-time paid experience in carpentry, masonry, concrete, structural steel or framing and rough carpentry work following the completion of a recognized apprenticeship program; or
4. Eight years of full-time paid experience in carpentry, masonry, concrete, structural steel or framing and rough carpentry work; or
5. One year of full-time paid experience as an Assistant Inspector III with the City of Los Angeles.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #3 must submit proof of completion of a recognized apprenticeship program indicated in Requirement #3. Applicants must attach a copy of the proof of completion to the on-line application at the time of filing. The requested document(s) must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the document(s) is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the document(s). Applicants who fail to submit the document(s) at the time of filing by attaching it to the on-line application will not be considered further in this examination.
3. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Upon appointment, a Building Inspector will be required to furnish an automobile, properly insured, for use in City service. Mileage will be paid according to established rates.
5. A valid certification from the International Code Council (ICC) per Article 5.13 of MOU #5 and Assembly Bill AB717 is required within two years from the date of appointment to the class. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.


NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.



APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Multiple-Choice Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of a weighted multiple-choice test administered and proctored on-line. In the on-line multiple-choice test, the following competencies may be evaluated: reading comprehension; judgment and decision making; safety focus; customer service; and job knowledge including knowledge of: the Los Angeles City Building Code (ADA accessibility & requirements; Framing - wood or metal stem; Means of Egress; Green Code; Types of Construction - fire-rated & separation); how to read and interpret street maps or use computer navigation programs; factors necessary to determine substandard construction areas or other conditions posing immediate threat to life or property; safe and lawful motor vehicle operation according to DMV rules and regulations; symbols, terminology, and tools used in the building trades; basic math (addition, subtraction, multiplication, division); various building practices including: carpentry, masonry, steel, concrete and grading work; and computer software programs (e.g. MS Excel and MS Word) and Internet; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Building Inspector.

The multiple-choice test will be proctored and administered on-line during a single session. Candidates invited to participate in the on-line multiple-choice test will be able to take the test from any location using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the dates and specific steps on how to take the multiple-choice test on-line. It is anticipated that the remote proctored multiple-choice test will be administered between MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2019 and MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 2019. Candidates who do not complete and submit the remote proctored multiple-choice test on-line using a computer by the specified date and time will not be considered further in this examination.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
6. A final average score of 70% is needed in order to be placed on the eligible list.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 4211 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10-19-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

