BUILDING OPERATING ENGINEER

Class Code:       5923
Open Date:  11-16-18
REVISED:    11-28-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$92,352 and $95,171 (flat-rated)

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 
2. Some positions may require night and weekend work. Candidates willing to work various shifts are especially desired. Higher salaries are paid for shift work.

DUTIES

A Building Operating Engineer operates, monitors, and performs maintenance on high pressure gas or oil fired boilers, gas or steam turbines, energy recovery boilers and heat exchangers, other heating systems, and their auxiliaries in supplying steam or high temperature hot water for space heating and similar purposes; operates, monitors, and performs maintenance on large tonnage capacity chillers used for air-conditioning, including all auxiliary related equipment such as condensers, cooling towers, pumps, and air compressors; performs water treatment tests and analysis; monitors and maintains other building service equipment; operates and programs computer based building automation systems, trouble-shoot program control sequence of operation, operates and maintains various types of refrigeration and air conditioning air handling units, operates and monitors computer based lighting control systems; responds and investigates building tenant service requests; tests and monitors fire life and safety alarm systems; maintains the building operability while optimizing equipment performance for efficient energy management and energy reduction. 

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

A valid unlimited Steam Engineer's license issued by the Department of Building and Safety of the City of Los Angeles is required at the time of filing.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants must attach a copy of their unlimited Steam Engineer's license to the on-line application at the time of filing. The requested document(s) must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the document(s) is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the document(s). Applicants who fail to submit the document(s) at the time of filing by attaching it to the on-line application will not be considered further in this examination.
2. A valid universal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) certificate is required prior to appointment pursuant to Section 608 of the Clean Air Act.
3. All positions at the Los Angeles World Airports require a turbine endorsement issued by the Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety prior to the completion of probation.
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 



SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Multiple-Choice Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
     Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying multiple-choice test and an interview. The qualifying multiple-choice test will consist of questions administered and proctored on-line. In the on-line multiple-choice test, the following competencies may be evaluated: mechanical aptitude, electrical understanding; and job knowledge including knowledge of: operating principles and construction of oil and gas fired boilers and related auxiliary equipment sufficient to understand their basic and safe operation including start up and shut down; methods and practices used in cleaning and maintaining oil, gas fired, and waste-heat boilers, and related auxiliary equipment sufficient to maintain their continued operation, prevent breakdowns, and pass safety inspections; principles and practices of air conditioning plant, cooling tower, and air handling unit operation and maintenance such as manual, mechanical, and chemical methods for tub cleaning, and the detection of failing bearing and fan belts sufficient to ensure their continuous operation; operating principles of compressed air system service and control sufficient to operate, maintain, and repair as necessary; water treatment process; electricity principles; safe working procedures contained in department, city, and state regulations sufficient to work safely in compliance with regulations; arithmetic (addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division) sufficient to make calculations of fuel use, power, water consumption, and BTUs; hazards and safety precautions involved in high pressure boiler operation; fire alarm systems, fire pumps, and emergency generator operation sufficient to run the equipment when necessary; operation of computer based building control systems sufficient to perform troubleshooting; problems involve in building operations; basic computer operating systems and Microsoft Office applications utilized on the job; the ability to: monitor equipment in a way which distinguishes normal from abnormal operations using signs such as equipment readings, vibration, sound, temperature, and leaks in to detect problems at an early stage; read and interpret information from on-line computer print-outs such as alarm signals, equipment malfunctions, temperature readouts, and other system data to diagnose and properly respond to potential problems; read and interpret instrument readings from boilers, air conditioning equipment, pumps, compressors, and related equipment to diagnose problems and take appropriate, timely action; read and understand manufacturers' manuals and brochures of instructions used in the repair of operation of equipment; read schematic diagrams and drawings of equipment to use them when necessary to maintain or repair equipment; interpret trouble calls and make appropriate corrective decisions; analyze indications of building system problems and anticipate malfunctions to determine preventive action; keep operating and maintenance reports, prepare rough specifications for tools, materials, and supplies; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities. 

The multiple-choice test will be proctored and administered on-line during a single session. Candidates invited to participate in the on-line multiple-choice test will be able to take the test from any location using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the dates and specific steps on how to take the multiple-choice test on-line. It is anticipated that the remote proctored multiple-choice test will be administered between TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2019 and TUESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2019. Candidates who do not complete and submit the remote proctored multiple-choice test on-line using a computer by the specified date and time will not be considered further in this examination.

Passing Score for Qualifying Written Test
The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying multiple-choice test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice test may be set either above or below 70%.

Additional job analysis information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Building Operating Engineer. FAQs for on-line testing are available at http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess. Candidates who do not have the required equipment may have the option to take the multiple-choice test onsite at a City facility.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying multiple-choice test in order to be called for the interview. The examination score will be based entirely on the interview.

In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: safety focus; equipment operation; interpersonal skills; customer service; teamwork; and job knowledge, including knowledge of: safe working procedures contained in department, city, and state regulations including proper tool use and wearing proper personal protective equipment (i.e., PPE) sufficient to work safely and in compliance with regulations; operating principles and construction of oil and gas fired boilers and related auxiliary equipment sufficient to understand their basic and safe operation including start up and shut down; methods and practices used in cleaning and maintaining oil, gas fired, and waste-heat boilers, and related auxiliary equipment sufficient to maintain their continued operation, prevent breakdowns, and pass safety inspections; principles and practices of air conditioning plant, cooling tower, and air handling unit operation and maintenance such as manual, mechanical, and chemical methods for tub cleaning, and the detection of failing bearing and fan belts sufficient to ensure their continuous operation; water treatment process; the ability to: monitor equipment in a way which distinguishes normal from abnormal operations using signs such as equipment readings, vibration, sound, temperature, and leaks to detect problems at an early stage; read and interpret instrument readings from boilers, air conditioning equipment, pumps, compressors, and related equipment to diagnose problems and take appropriate, timely action; use good judgment including: consideration of the effect actions will have on operations, the public, and equipment when confronted with emergency or non-routine situations; tactfully communicate with co-workers, craft and security personnel supervisors, tenants, and the public; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities. 

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. 

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the multiple-choice test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage, as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 5923 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11-16-18 REV 11-28-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

