CHIEF ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE INSPECTOR

Class Code:       4289
Open Date:  03-30-18
                                                                (Exam Open to All Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$90,326 to $132,066 and $106,341 to $155,493

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Chief Environmental Compliance Inspector plans, organizes, directs or assists in directing the City-wide inspection and investigation of the disposal of pollutants into the sanitary sewers or storm drain systems as part of the wastewater, pretreatment and stormwater programs; inspects waste hauler facilities, multifamily and commercial premises for compliance with City ordinances; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

One year of full-time paid experience as a Senior Environmental Compliance Inspector for the City of Los Angeles.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months of the above required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Upon appointment, a Chief Environmental Compliance Inspector may be required to furnish an automobile, properly insured, for use in City service. Mileage will be paid on the basis of established rates. 
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Applicants may be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 2018.



SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting the minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
                                      Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%
                                      
The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and background as they demonstrate the ability to direct or assist in directing the City-wide inspection and investigation of disposal of toxic, hazardous and other wastes, and the knowledge of: types of wastes and stormwater runoff produced by various industries; types of toxic, hazardous, or other wastes which may be discharged into publicly owned wastewater systems, stormwater systems, sewers, storm drains, or on or into the ground; legal requirements applicable to the methods and requirements for handling and storage of hazardous or toxic solid wastes; testing and sampling, including EPA approved procedures, equipment used and interpretation of test results sufficient to evaluate reports; provisions of City, State, and Federal laws, ordinances, codes and regulations relating to industrial waste inspection, including procedures for locating specific laws; procedures and requirements for issuing waste disposal permits and issuing notices of violation; legal requirements and procedures for documentation of violations and issuing notices; information needed and procedures for entering information into computer database and/or for filling out and forwarding storing forms, including forms with inspection information; City practices and procedures for transmitting information involving conditions of a situation that require a management level decision; safety principles, practices, and regulations, including those applicable to working in hazardous or unpleasant conditions; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending, and delegating, reviewing, and evaluating the work of subordinates; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity and Memoranda of Understanding of subordinates personnel; and the ability to: read and interpret technical material, including technical reports and laws, rules, and regulations; use a personal computer sufficient to enter and retrieve data related to inspections and to prepare drafts of memos and schedules; plan, set priorities and organize materials sufficient to complete inspections; organize tasks, responsibilities, and assignments into orderly, logical sequences sufficient to provide administrative, technical and other staff with structure and direction; plan subordinates' work assignments; communicate both orally and in writing in a clear, concise and effective manner; deal tactfully and effectively with other City employees, representatives of commercial and industrial firms, and the general public; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Prior to the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Chief Environmental Compliance Inspector. This material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. The Advisory Essay will be administered on-line. Candidates invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to complete the on-line Advisory Essay, and will be required to do so by the date provided in the instructions sent to them via e-mail. Candidates who fail to complete the on-line Advisory Essay may be disqualified. It is anticipated that the on-line Advisory Essay will be administered MAY 18, 2018 to MAY 21, 2018.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time and location of the interviews, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JUNE 11, 2018 to JUNE 22, 2018. 

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that minimum requirements are met.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 4289. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .03-30-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

