CHIEF OF AIRPORT PLANNING

Class Code:       7945
Open Date:  3-24-17
				                  (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$105,736 to $150,398; and $120,644 to $171,654

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list normally are appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Chief of Airport Planning, under the general direction of senior management, directs, or assists in directing, the activities of professional and technical employees engaged in planning and development activities at the Los Angeles World Airports; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university and a certification as a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Green Associate by the United States Green Building Council; or  graduation from  an accredited four-year college or university with a degree in civil, structural, or traffic engineering, architecture, environmental studies, planning, or transportation; and
2. Four years of full-time paid professional experience in airport-related planning, design, architecture, transportation, engineering, environmental activities or construction projects, two years of which are in a position at the level of Civil Engineer or City Planner directing and/or supervising employees engaged in such work.

A graduate degree from an accredited college or university may be substituted for one year of the required experience. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
4. To be at the level of a Civil Engineer requires a Professional Engineer license and four years of full-time paid professional engineering experience.
5. To be at the level of City Planner requires a four-year degree from an accredited college or university with a major in urban planning or related field and four years of full-time paid professional city planning experience of increasing responsibilities.
6. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. 
7. Candidates on the open list completing the exam process may be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree and coursework.

WHERE TO APPLY
       
Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the Training and Experience Questionnaire test session in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from March 24, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of a Training and Experience Questionnaire. In the Training and Experience Questionnaire candidates may be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background and personal qualifications, including knowledge of: principles, practices, and purposes of airport planning; airport planning theory in regard to transportation, land use entitlements and infrastructure; federal, state and local laws, rules, and regulations applicable to airport planning and development; safety principles and practices; supervisory concepts, including planning, delegating, training, instructing, evaluating work performance, disciplining, motivating, enhancing morale and productivity, and fulfilling Equal Employment Opportunity responsibilities; and the ability to: evaluate complex technical proposals for economic feasibility, soundness of planning features in conformance to Airport policies and practices, federal, state and local laws and regulations; communicate in a clear and effective manner, including the clear and cohesive preparation of written material; deal tactfully and effectively with staff, officials, and the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities. 

Training and Experience Questionnaires will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the candidate's Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the review panel.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the time and location of the written test. The Training and Experience Questionnaire will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, MAY 20, 2017, in Los Angeles. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their responses to the Training and Experience Questionnaire.

NOTES:	

1. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period under the provisions of Charter Section 1011.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those classes that provide qualifying experience for this position, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. Promotional candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those classes that provide qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of those candidates.
7. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
8. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
9. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
10. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7945 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3-24-17



AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


		

