CHIEF STREET SERVICES INVESTIGATOR
 
 Class Code:       4286
Open Date:  11-17-17
                                                                                        (Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$93,250 to $132,671; $110,705 to $157,539

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting
salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Chief Street Services Investigator manages the Investigation and Enforcement Division of the Bureau of Street Services, Department of Public Works; directs or assists in directing investigations made to enforce laws and regulations pertaining to the use and the safe condition of City streets, sidewalks, and other public ways; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS  

1. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Senior Street Services Investigator, or in a class at that level, supervising employees engaged in conducting investigations and enforcing laws and regulations in a municipal code or law enforcement agency; and
2. Valid certification of completion of the California Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training (P.O.S.T) for Arrest, Search and Seizure pursuant to Penal Code Section 832.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Law enforcement supervisory or command training is highly desired but not required.
4. Applicants must attach a copy of their P.O.S.T certification for Arrest, Search and Seizure pursuant to Penal Code Section 832 to the online application at the time of filing.  The certification must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted.  If the certification is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the certification. Applicants who fail to submit the certification at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.
5. As duly appointed public officers as defined in California Penal Code, Section 836.5, the Chief Street Services Investigator positions are subject to the training and standards set forth in the Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 61.07(a).


APPLICATION DEADLINE


Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Essay. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory                                                                       
                                      Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%
                                      
The examination will consist entirely of experience and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's training, background, and experience as they have provided the candidate knowledge of: types of hazardous wastes produced by various industries; City, State, and Federal laws sufficient to properly file cases; common hazards found at refuse disposal sites, public ways, railroad right-of-way and private landfills; frequently used provisions of City, State, and Board of Public Works rules and regulations relating to inspection, including City ordinances, codes, and regulations such as the Municipal Code, procedures of the Department of Public Works Bureau of Sanitation, State environmental protection laws and regulations, and EPA Federal Code; procedure and information needed to fill out, forward and store inspection forms and reports; conditions in which complex situations of City to legal action requires a management level decision; channels of communication for transmitting information; laws, codes, and regulations related to handling, transporting, storing, and using hazardous materials sufficient to prepare and file criminal cases; safety principles and regulations; fundamental principles and practices of supervision including directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending, and evaluating the work of subordinates; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity; disciplinary steps as set by Department policies; and the ability to use a personal computer or computer terminal sufficient to prepare memoranda and schedules; plan as required to get routine inspections done at appropriate intervals; use information received from complaints, work assignments, previous experience and other sources; set priorities and organize materials into logical sequence; plan subordinates' work assignments; communicate effectively, both orally and in writing, with the public, government officials, and employees sufficient to discuss technical information and persuade others to adopt a specific course of action; interact with perseverance, patience, and tact when explaining requirements of City, State, and Federal laws, ordinances, codes, and regulations; other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of JANUARY 29, 2018 to FEBRUARY 9, 2018.

Prior to the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Chief Street Services Investigator. This material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates who fail to complete the Advisory Essay as instructed may be disqualified.

The Advisory Essay will be administered online. Candidates invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps needed to complete the online Advisory Essay. Candidates will be required to complete the online advisory essay on SATURDAY, JANUARY 6, 2018. Additional instructions will be sent via e-mail. 


NOTES:

1. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period under provisions of Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter. 
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. Candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those City classes which provide qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of the candidate.
6. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidate's City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met. 
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 4286 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11-17-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 


