

CHIEF TAX COMPLIANCE OFFICER

     Class Code:       1211
Open Date:  04-18-14

ANNUAL SALARY

$105,172 to $130,687 and $127,347 to $158,207
Appointments from the eligible list are normally made at the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Chief Tax Compliance Officer directs or assists in directing the operations of a Division of the Office of Finance; applies sound management principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS

1.	Two years of full-time paid experience as a Senior Tax Auditor; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience in a position at least at the level of Tax Compliance Officer III, which provides supervisory experience in tax and permit operations.

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met. 
2. Each applicant must complete and submit a regular City application and Qualifications Questionnaire for Chief Tax Compliance Officer by the last date to file. Applicants who fail to submit both the application and Qualifications Questionnaire by the close of filing will not be considered a candidate in this examination. Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires, which clearly do not meet the above requirements, will not be accepted. 
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promortionaljobs=1 for Promotional Exams.

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaire must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 1, 2014.
 
SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional, administrative, and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis will be placed on an evaluation of the nature and adequacy of your experience, training, and professional development as they have provided the background to perform the duties of a Chief Tax Compliance Officer, including knowledge of: tax and permit provisions of the City Charter, City tax and permit ordinances, City Clerk rulings, and related City Attorney's opinions; policies and procedures; business methods and operations; effective methods used in making inspections and investigations; standard forms of commercial accounting, bookkeeping and auditing; supervisory principles and practices; techniques of training, instructing, and evaluating; techniques for counseling, disciplining and motivating subordinate personnel; procedures for grievance handling; supervisory responsibilities for equal employment opportunity and maintaining a discrimination-free workplace; City personnel rules, policies, and procedures; the ability to: direct the disposition and enforcement procedures of complex tax and permit cases; direct the maintenance of records and the preparation of reports; exercise sound judgment in the formulation of tax and permit policies; conduct or participate in conferences or hearings; communicate tactfully and effectively; establish and maintain a work environment to enhance both employee morale and productivity; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

Candidates will be notified by mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of MAY 27, 2014 through JUNE 6, 2014.

NOTES:

1. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
2. Candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of continuous service in those classes which provide qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of those candidates.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. A final average score of 70% in the interview is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 1211. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04-18-14

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

