





CHIEF INTERNAL AUDITOR
 	                                                                                                   Class Code:       1619
                                                                                                       Open Date:  09-09-16
 (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY
 
$111,750 to $159,022

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Chief Internal Auditor plans, organizes and coordinates the work of a group of professional, and technical employees engaged in conducting financial, performance, compliance and/or information technology audits of considerable scope, complexity and sensitivity; interacts with elected officials, City department managers and their staff, and members of the public; assists in representing the City and Office of the Controller on municipal committees and before government officials, citizens' groups and others for the purpose of presenting and explaining report findings and recommendations; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; and performs related duties as assigned.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS 

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a degree in accounting, business administration, information systems, or a related field; and
2. Three years of full-time paid experience in a position at the level of Internal Auditor IV, supervising professional audit staff engaged in conducting independent financial, performance, compliance and/or information technology audits in accordance with Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards or Generally Accepted Auditing Standards.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. 
3. Advanced degrees or certifications such as a Master's or Doctorate in Business Administration, Public Administration, or related field, designation as a Certified internal Auditor (CIA) or Certified Public Accountant (CPA) or Certified Information System Auditor are desired by but not required. 
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
	
WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be submitted by THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2016.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from September 9, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.


SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory 
			       Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Judgment and Decision Making, Supervision, Results Orientation, Interpersonal Skills, Credibility, Written Communication, Project Management, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS), including auditing theories, practices, and methods pertaining to governmental entities; principles of organization, methods of analysis including program evaluation, financial auditing, performance auditing, information technology auditing, cost-benefit analysis, work measurement, and work simplification analysis; evaluative methods, including qualitative and quantitative analysis, and statistical sampling; how to organize, analyze and evaluate data, which may involve application of various techniques such as work sampling, incremental analysis, break-even analysis, simulation, probability analysis, cost-benefit analysis, random sampling and other similar analytical techniques; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/jobanalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Chief Internal Auditor.

On the same day as the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Chief Internal Auditor. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory essay may be disqualified. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their advisory essay responses.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2016 to FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2016.

NOTES:		

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Appointment to a position in this class is subject to a one-year probationary period under the provisions of Section 1011 of the City Charter.
3. Candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of continuous service in those classes which provide qualifying experience for this position. A maximum of one point will be added to the score of those candidates.
4. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit as indicated above, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
5. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
6. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
7. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
8. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered open candidates.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
10. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidate's employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that minimum requirements are met. 

	NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.
THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL
PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1619 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09-09-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

