CITY PLANNER

Class Code:      7944
Open Date: 12-07-18
(Exam Open to All Including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$87,236 to $127,555

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A City Planner plans, supervises, coordinates and reviews the work of a unit engaged in professional City planning activities such as community and citywide planning, environmental planning, airport planning, land use administration, or zoning administration; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and on an exceptional basis some positions may function as a project manager and may personally perform work on the more complex and large planning projects exercising a high degree of decision-making authority. A City Planner may also conduct public hearings.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience as a City Planning Associate with the City of Los Angeles; or
2. Four years of full-time paid professional experience at the level of Planning Assistant in long-range or current urban planning with at least 18 months of the four years being with the City of Los Angeles; or
3. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a major in urban planning, urban studies, urban design, architecture, landscape architecture, geography or a closely-related field and four years of full-time paid professional experience in long-range or current urban planning. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Applicants qualifying under Requirement #3 must list their school name and location, type of degree earned and major in the Education Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to provide this information on their application will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed. 
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree. 
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. 
6. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree and/or coursework. Applicants who wish to expedite this process may attach a copy of their transcripts (annotated with accounting courses, credit earned, and grade received) or qualifying degree to their on-line application at the time of filing in the Attachments section.

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training in one or more of the following areas. Only persons possessing the following at the time of filing may be considered for appointment to fill such positions.

1. Two years of full-time paid experience in urban design and/or architecture. An academic degree with a concentration or emphasis specifically focused on urban design or design and development is highly preferred.
2. Two years of full-time paid experience in the field of environmental policy and/or environmental analysis. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) experience is highly preferred.
3. Two years of full-time paid experience in the field of historic preservation, including the implementation and application of the Secretary of the Interior's Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties, as to proposals affecting historic buildings; or an academic degree with a major or concentration specifically focused on historic preservation or historic preservation planning.
4. 18 months of full-time paid experience preparing noise, traffic, air quality, or related environmental studies that address airport planning development using the criteria set forth by the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA);
5. Two years of full-time paid experience performing airport planning or design duties in accordance with Federal Aviation Administration laws and regulations.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, DECEMBER 20, 2018.


SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
                                        Multiple-Choice Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
		     Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying multiple-choice test, an advisory essay, and an interview. The qualifying multiple-choice test will consist of questions administered and proctored on-line. In the on-line multiple-choice test, the following competencies may be evaluated: supervisory knowledge, customer service, interpersonal skills, and job knowledge including knowledge of: organization, functions, and responsibilities of the divisions, sections, and units within the Planning Department and/or Los Angeles World Airports and their relationship to their respective Commissions, the City Council, the Mayor's Office, and other City departments; procedures of the City Planning Commissions and/or Board of Airport Commissions; content and organization of the General Plan of the City of Los Angeles and/or Los Angeles World Airports planning documents; purposes and goals of zoning principles, practices, and policies as factors in the preparation of regulations and plans; land use planning, and mobility concepts as related to multi-model transit systems, bus systems, rail and other rapid transit systems, freeways and highways, airports, and port facilities; urban planning concepts including urban design, sustainability, walkability, green building, mass transit, and the impact of urban renewal/gentrification or other major development on air quality, traffic patterns, housing, recreation areas, historic preservation, zoning and other planning issues; patterns of space and urban land forms used in the development of urban designs or planning strategies in order to relate urban design principles and/or airport design principles to the work of the Department of City Planning and/or Los Angeles World Airports in Developing Community Plans, Specific Plans, including the LAX Specific Plan, Transit Oriented Developments, and Community Design Overlay Districts; legal and procedural requirements for conducting public meetings and/or hearings regarding planning and/or aviation planning issues; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities. 

Prior to the multiple-choice test, applicants will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a City Planner. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Please note that applicants must complete the advisory essay and meet minimum qualifications as stated on this bulletin in order to be considered further in the examination process.

The advisory essay will be administered on-line. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps needed to complete the on-line advisory essay. Candidates will be required to complete the on-line advisory essay between MONDAY, JANUARY 7, 2019 and MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2019. Additional instructions will be sent via e-mail. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory essay as instructed may be disqualified.

The multiple-choice test will be proctored and administered on-line during a single session. Candidates invited to participate in the on-line multiple-choice test will be able to take the test from any location using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the dates and specific steps on how to take the multiple-choice test on-line. It is anticipated that the remote proctored multiple-choice test will be administered between TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2019 and TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2019. Candidates who do not complete and submit the remote proctored multiple-choice test on-line using a computer by the specified date and time will not be considered further in this examination.

Passing Score for the Qualifying Multiple-Choice Test

The passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying multiple-choice test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice test may be set either above or below 70%.

Additional job analysis information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under City Planner. FAQs for on-line testing are available at http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess. Candidates who do not have the required equipment may have the option to take the multiple-choice test onsite at a City facility.

Candidates must complete the advisory essay, achieve a passing score on the qualifying multiple-choice test, and meet minimum qualifications in order to be invited to the interview.

In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: judgment and decision making, supervisory knowledge, results orientation, emotional maturity, oral and written communication, customer service, interpersonal skills, and job knowledge including knowledge of: content and organization of the General Plan of the City of Los Angeles and/or Los Angeles World Airports planning documents; purposes and goals of zoning principles, practices, and policies as factors in the preparation of regulations and plans; land use planning, and mobility concepts as related to multi-model transit systems, bus systems, rail and other rapid transit systems, freeways and highways, airports, and port facilities; urban planning concepts including urban design, sustainability, walkability, green building, mass transit, and the impact of urban renewal/gentrification or other major development on air quality, traffic patterns, housing, recreation areas, historic preservation, zoning and other planning issues; patterns of space and urban land forms used in the development of urban designs or planning strategies while considering mobility patterns, topography, and land use factors in order to relate urban design principles and/or airport design principles to the work of the Department of City Planning and/or Los Angeles World Airports in Developing Community Plans and Specific Plans; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the multiple-choice test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.

Notice: 

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7944. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .12-07-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

