CIVIL ENGINEERING DRAFTING TECHNICIAN  

Class Code:     7232
Open Date:  08-04-17
Revised 08-17-17
                                                                     (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)	                                                                        
ANNUAL SALARY 

$50,759 to $74,228 
The salary in the Airport is $55,269 to $80,826
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $66,607 to $82,747; $69,363 to $86,171; $70,804 to $87,988; $72,370 to $89,888 

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Civil Engineering Drafting Technician performs drafting using a Computer Aided Drafting 	and Design (CADD) system and other tools, in the preparation of engineering designs, plans, and maps.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Completion of 12 semester units or 18 quarter units in Computer Aided Drafting  and  Design (CADD) and completion of one course in Geometry and Trigonometry from a high school, accredited college, university, trade school, or technical school; or
2. Two years of full-time paid engineering drafting experience which includes one year of engineering drafting experience and one year of experience using a CADD system.

 PROCESS NOTES
	
1. Applicants qualifying under Requirement No. 1 must list their school name and location, appropriate course titles, their respective number of semester or quarter units, and completion dates for each course claimed as qualifying in the text box which will appear in the Supplemental Questions section of the on-line application.
2. A combination of course work and experience will not be accepted as meeting the requirements.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency.  A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training in one or more of the following areas.  Only persons possessing AutoCAD Civil 3D, AutoCAD Map, ArcGIS, Autodesk Revit, Bentley Suite Applications, and/or MicroStation systems skills, training, or experience at the time of filing may 
be considered for appointment to fill such positions.

NOTES:

1. Applicants who have proficiency in AutoCAD Civil 3D, AutoCAD Map, ArcGIS, Autodesk Revit, Bentley Suite Applications, and/or MicroStation must indicate this on their City application to be eligible for selective certification.
2. Applicants who indicate on their City application possession of skills, training or experience with either AutoCAD Civil 3D, AutoCAD Map, ArcGIS, Autodesk Revit, Bentley Suite Applications, and/or Microstation may be required to participate in a performance test at the time of certification.  In the performance test, candidates may be required to demonstrate their knowledge of and proficiency in the use of AutoCAD Civil 3D, AutoCAD Map, ArcGIS, Autodesk Revit, Bentley Suite Applications, and/or MicroStation. 
3. It is anticipated that most positions to be filled from the eligible list will require experience in either AutoCAD or MicroStation.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 


NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, AUGUST 24, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from August 4, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  100%
                                      
The examination will consist entirely of a multiple-choice written test.  In the written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: equipment, methods, tools, materials and their applications to civil engineering drafting,  including Computer Aided Drafting and Design (CADD); principles and capabilities of CADD and computer generated modeling sufficient to generate drawings; drafting disciplines, nomenclature, and symbols used in different types of drawings; national and local standards such as American National Standard Institute, American Institute of Steel Construction Design and Detailing Manual, American Concrete Institute Handbook, Architectural Graphic Standards Building Codes, Cal/OSHA, and International Building Code; types of information available from public and private industries for the updating of map information sufficient to interpret data to draft correct and accurate civil plans; safety policies, precautions, and procedures sufficient to ensure safe working conditions; arithmetic, algebra, geometry, trigonometry, and curve data tables and their application to the computation of distances, angels, areas, and traverses; and the ability to gather, read, and interpret technical documents sufficient to prepare schematics, plans, and specifications relating to the construction, alteration, and repair of utilities and public works improvements; interpret design plans, charts, graphs and tables sufficient to produce graphs and tracking the progress of work projects; identify potential problem areas in construction as relating to details that appear in elevations, schematics, plans, and diagrams sufficient to provide feasible solutions or recommendations in order to avoid change orders, revisions to drawings, or construction errors; deal effectively and tactfully with co-workers, supervisors, managers and other agency representatives; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities. 

The Civil Engineering Drafting Technician and Architectural Drafting Technician written test may contain common test questions and will be administered concurrently.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half day session on SATURDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2017, in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered open candidates.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Code No. 7232 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . 08-04-17 REV 08-17-17 


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


