COMMUNICATIONS ELECTRICIAN SUPERVISOR
            
				                                                                           Class Code:       3689
Open Date:  01-27-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 
 
$99,347 (Flat Rated)
The salary for the Department of Water and Power is $115,570 to $122,022.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Communications Electrician Supervisor assigns, reviews and evaluates the work of one or more groups of employees engaged in the construction, installation, operation, repair, maintenance, and modification of radio, microwave transmission, Local Area Network/Wide Area Network data distribution systems, telephone networks, audio, TDD equipment, avionic electronics, intrusion alarm systems, mobile digital terminals, dispatch networks, copper and fiber-optic cable systems, video distribution systems, supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) and transmission systems; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force, fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities, and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1.	Two years of full-time paid experience in the class of Senior Communications Electrician with the City of Los Angeles, engaged in the supervision of technical work on communications equipment and systems; or
2. Four years of full-time paid experience in a class at the level of Communications Electrician with the City of Los Angeles, engaged in the installation, construction, operation, repair, maintenance or modification of communications equipment.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. A valid Radiotelegraph or Radiotelephone General Class Operator's License issued by the Federal Communications Commission is required prior to appointment for some positions in the class.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobsfor Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:


Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2017.




SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
                                        Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100% 

The examination will consist of a qualifying multiple-choice written test and interview. In the qualifying written test, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: principles of electricity and electronic theory; common sources of trouble in various types of electronic systems; methods of servicing and repairing various types of electronic systems; the uses of materials, test equipment and tools; methods used for maintaining, repairing, and calibrating test equipment and tools; hazards and safety precautions in work activities; the principles and practices of first aide; supervisory principles and practices; and laws, regulations and City policies relating to Equal Employment Opportunity; the ability to: locate and trace trouble in various types of electronic systems; effectively use electronic test equipment, tools and materials; read and interpret a variety of diagrams and sketches pertaining to work activities, including communications plans, schematic diagrams, wiring diagrams, circuit drawings, and blueprints; communicate in writing in a clear and effective manner to perform work related activities, including keeping records and preparing narrative reports; deal tactfully and effectively with employees, elected officials and the public; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, APRIL 1, 2017, in Los Angeles.

PASSING SCORE FOR THE QUALIFYING TEST

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the close of the filing period. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years.  Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice test may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying multiple-choice test, in order to be invited to the interview. 

In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and personal qualifications as they provide the knowledge of: inspection techniques and procedures necessary to monitor work progress on projects; supervisory principles and practices and laws, regulations and City policies relating to Equal Employment Opportunity; the ability to: effectively use electronic test equipment tools and materials; prepare a variety of diagrams and sketches pertaining to work activities; estimate time, labor, and materials from plans and specifications; analyze project requirements in order to effectively plan and direct work activities; communicate in a clear and effective manner for the purpose of giving and receiving information; deal tactfully and effectively with employees, elected officials, and the public; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of .25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service in those classes which provide qualifying experience for this class.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 3689 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1-27-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

