COMMUNITY AFFAIRS ADVOCATE
Class Code:       2496
Open Date:  11-14-14
ANNUAL SALARY

$105,966 to $131,648

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

Liaison or community relations advocate to community groups, local civic officers and elected officials to foster partnerships with a diverse range of community interest groups to resolve problems and provide equitable services; develops and manages programs to enhance the effectiveness of the department's relationship with community, industry, political, and business stakeholders, as well as potential private donors.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Current employment with the City of Los Angeles, and
2. A graduate degree from a recognized college or university in Urban Planning, and
3. Six years of full-time paid professional experience overseeing a department or division performing duties in community advocacy or community/public outreach concerning sustainable development or the development of educational, communication, or community programs at the local, state or national level.

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Community Affairs Advocate Qualifications Questionnaire and the Training and Experience Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Community Affairs Advocate Qualifications Questionnaire and the Training and Experience Questionnaire are both located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire and the Training and Experience Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants lacking six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and Questionnaires WILL ONLY BE ACCEPTED ON-LINE from 8:00 a.m., MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2014 to MIDNIGHT, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2014. Applications submitted before the start of the filing period will not be accepted.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Questionnaires must be received by FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2014.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will have their Training and Experience Questionnaires scored in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from November 14, 2014 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

EXPERT REVIEW COMMITTEE:

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, an Expert Review Committee may be assembled to evaluate each candidate's qualifications for the position of Community Affairs Advocate. In this evaluation, the Expert Review Committee will assess each candidate's training and experience based upon the information in the candidate's City employment application and the Qualifications Questionnaire. Only those candidates considered by the Expert Review Committee as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Community Affairs Advocate, based solely on the information presented to the committee, will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Training and Experience Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of training and experience, wherein candidates may be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background and personal qualifications as they provide the knowledge of: the methods and practices used in developing, sustaining and expanding community relations programs; communication materials, tools, and equipment such as, websites, social media outlets, newsletters, brochures, advertisements, and presentations; and the ability to develop and coordinate public events, public meetings, and all related communication materials; develop and implement comprehensive and strategic communications and public outreach plans; gain the support and cooperation of City employees and the public and private stakeholders; interact effectively with diverse groups of people; work effectively with others to resolve problems; work closely with community groups at public speaking events and engagements with neighborhood councils; persuasively, tactfully, and effectively communicate ideas before an individual or a group of individuals; respond effectively to media inquiries both verbally and in written form; write clear and concise reports, public documents, internal and external materials, and various other types of correspondence; prepare briefings, talking points, speeches and background materials for self and others to use at public events, interviews, or meetings; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Training and Experience Questionnaires and City employment applications of all candidates will be submitted to an Expert Review Panel for evaluation.  The Expert Review Panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the candidate's Training and Experience Questionnaire.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 2496 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11-14-14

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

