COMMUNITY HOUSING PROGRAMS MANAGER

Class Code:       8500
  Open Date:  07-20-18
Revised: 08-09-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$101,664 to $148,665

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Community Housing Programs Manager plans, organizes, and directs the activities of a large staff engaged in the administrative, financial, and construction aspects of a grant-funded housing rehabilitation or production program; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Four years of full-time paid housing rehabilitation or production experience, at the level of Rehabilitation Project Coordinator, supervising employees administering a public or private housing rehabilitation, housing production, real estate or real estate financing program relating to community based housing programs.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete a Community Housing Programs Manager Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Community Housing Programs Manager Qualification Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
3. To be at the level of Rehabilitation Project Coordinator requires a four-year degree from an accredited college or university and four years of full-time paid professional experience engaged in administering or implementing a program directed at housing development, home ownership, or the physical rehabilitation or improvement of housing or commercial structures; or engaged in inspection activities in such a program.
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
5. The term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. (See note above). Therefore, to be considered "professional," experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
6. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.
7. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be completed at the time of filing for you to be considered in this examination.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, AUGUST 16, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of candidates file for this examination, an expert review committee may be assembled to evaluate each candidate's qualifications for the job of Community Housing Programs Manager. In this evaluation, the expert review committee will consider the information in both the candidates' City employment applications and their Qualifications Questionnaires. Those candidates considered by the expert review committee as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the job of Community Housing Programs Manager, based solely on the information presented to the committee, will be invited to the interview.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of training, experience, and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's background and experience as they have provided the knowledge of: theory, principles, and practices of affordable housing provisions, including development, rehabilitation, and other forms of housing assistance; principles and procedures of housing rehabilitation, single family, or multi-family housing development and financing; Federal, state and local laws and regulations governing affordable housing provisions; principles, practices, and techniques of budgeting, personnel administration, organization, and management; safety principles and practices; supervisory principles and practices, including planning, delegating, counseling, disciplining, motivating, and the laws and regulations related to Equal Employment Opportunity; techniques of training, instructing, and evaluating subordinate's work performance; ability to: organize and manage technical and financial resources; plan, coordinate, direct, and review the activities of a group of professional and technical staff engaged in administrative, financial, and construction activities; prepare and present oral and written reports and recommendations of a budgetary, technical or evaluative nature, clearly, concisely, logically, and convincingly; deal tactfully and effectively with representatives of governmental, community organizations, financial institutions, City officials, and the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of SEPTEMBER 24, 2018 TO OCTOBER 5, 2018.

NOTES:

1. Appointments to this class are subject to a one-year probationary period under the provisions of Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to the City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
8. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidate's City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum requirement are met.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code: 8500. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .07-20-18 REV 08-09-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

