CONSTRUCTION ESTIMATOR
Class Code:       3341                                                                                                           
Open Date:  07-08-16
REVISED: 07-21-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY	

$70,428 to $102,980
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $80,910 to $100,516

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Construction Estimator creates cost estimates for labor, material, and equipment based on conceptual, preliminary, or detailed designs for the construction, alteration, rehabilitation and maintenance of projects that may include civil, structural, and architectural disciplines for any of the structures and facilities owned and/or operated by the City. A construction estimator may be required to process Requests for Information, and Change Order Estimates when necessary.

REQUIREMENTS

1.	Two years of full-time paid experience in building estimating, building inspection, general contracting, professional architecture, or professional engineering; and
2.	Two years of full-time paid experience in making cost and quantity estimates for type I, II, III, IV, and V buildings under the Uniform Building Code or the Los Angeles City Building Code.

Education at an accredited college or university in civil, structural or construction engineering, or in architecture at the rate of 30 semester or 45 quarter units may be substituted on a year for year basis for the experience specified in Requirement #1.

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete a Construction Estimator Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Construction Estimator Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Please note qualifying experience must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from July 8, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Construction Estimator may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Construction Estimator, based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review, will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:       Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory													       Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's work experience and professional development as they have provided the background necessary to perform the duties of a Construction Estimator, including knowledge of: reinforced concrete, steel, masonry, and wood frame buildings; electrical and mechanical installations in buildings; prevailing wages, construction practices, and terminology used in the building, electrical, and mechanical trades; type I, II, III, IV, and V buildings under the Uniform Building Code and Los Angeles City Building Code; and the ability to accurately estimate material, equipment, and labor costs in the construction, maintenance, alteration, and repair of structures and facilities; evaluate and process contract Change Orders; make cost analyses of complete structures on a per square foot basis; read and interpret building plans, sketches, and specifications; use computer applications, such as spreadsheets and estimating programs; write clear and comprehensive technical reports; communicate orally in a clear and effective manner; deal tactfully and effectively with contractors, employees and the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

As part of their evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Candidates may expect panel members to discuss this information during the interviews. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the interview panel.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of OCTOBER 3, 2016 to OCTOBER 14, 2016.

Candidates will be required to complete an advisory essay exercise related to the duties and responsibilities of a Construction Estimator. This material will not be separately scored but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate's qualifications. Those who do not complete the advisory essay will not be invited to the interview and will be considered to have failed the entire examination. Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the time and location of the advisory essay test, which will be held in a single half-day session in Los Angeles, on SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2016. 

Each candidate may bring one architect scale, one civil engineer scale, one standard or scientific calculator, and one magnifying glass to the advisory exercise session. A voltage supply will not be available in the examination room. You will not be permitted to refer to written instructions for the use of the scales or calculator.

APPROVED TEST ITEMS FACT SHEET

A fact sheet has been developed to assist candidates in determining the type of items that will be allowed in the advisory exercise session. The fact sheet is available online at https://per.lacity.org/exams/3341fact.pdf.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates. 
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Code Class 3341 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07-08-16 REV 07-21-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


