CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE SUPERINTENDENT

                                                                                                      Class Code:      3129
                                                                                                      Open Date: 08-26-16
REVISED: 09-08-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$122,377 to $197,670

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Construction and Maintenance Superintendent plans, organizes, directs, and reviews through subordinate supervisors the work of a large group of employees engaged in construction and maintenance activities; is responsible for large construction projects and maintenance programs, and the development, review, implementation, and management of training and safety programs; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Three years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Construction and Maintenance Supervisor or in a class at that level as a second-level full-time supervisor of journey-level workers in general construction or maintenance work.

PROCESS NOTES

1.	In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete a Construction and Maintenance Superintendent Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Construction and Maintenance Superintendent Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2.	Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3.	Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:	Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
	Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of: practices, processes, and materials used in construction and maintenance work; crafts and trades employed in construction and maintenance work; operation and maintenance of construction equipment and machinery; practices and procedures for workers' safety, including pertinent Federal, State, City, and Department rules and regulations; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity Policies and Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) as they apply to subordinate personnel; supervisory principles and practices such as planning, delegating, disciplining, evaluating, organizing and directing; and the ability to interpret and analyze plans and specifications to determine personnel, equipment, and material requirements; deal with administrative matters arising in connection with large-scale construction projects; prepare progress reports, cost estimates, and special reports analyzing costs and making recommendations; develop and manage budgets for large construction and maintenance projects, including personnel, material, capital and equipment costs; analyze and implement organizational and work process improvements to eliminate and reduce employee injuries and improve worker safety records; take effective action in emergencies; plan, coordinate, direct and inspect the work of a large group of employees through subordinate supervisors; conduct investigations and prepare recommendations to executive management for disciplinary actions of employees who violate City or Department policies; formulate, analyze and implement organizational work processes to improve work productivity of subordinate work groups; motivate and influence people at a variety of levels to work together an act in ways which contribute for accomplishment of department goals and objectives; exercise sound leadership, administrative and technical judgment, originality and initiative in recommending new or revised methods, procedures, programs, and solutions to difficult or sensitive problems; deal tactfully and effectively with representatives of other governmental agencies and the public; write effectively in order to communicate in the preparation of reports pertaining to construction problems, work progress, personnel issues, disputes, proper administration and management of policies, practices and safety; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities. 

Prior to the interviews, candidates will be required to prepare some written material on a topic related to the duties and responsibilities of a Construction and Maintenance Superintendent. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their advisory essay responses. In addition, as part of their evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will also consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Candidates may expect panel members to discuss this information during the interviews. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the interview panel.

Candidates must complete the advisory essay. Those who do not complete the advisory essay will not be invited to the interview and will be considered to have failed the examination. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the advisory essay session which will take place in Los Angeles and will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2016.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of NOVEMBER 7, 2016 to NOVEMBER 18, 2016.

NOTES:
		
1. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
2. Candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those City classes which provide qualifying experience for this position. A maximum of one point will be added to the score of the candidates.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
 ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3129 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08-26-16 REV 09-08-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

