CONTROL SYSTEMS ENGINEERING ASSOCIATE


Class Code:       7230
Open Date:  09-08-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)


ANNUAL SALARY

$64,456 to $94,252; $72,098 to $105,444; $80,283 to $117,345; $87,236 to $127,555

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Control Systems Engineering Associate develops, designs, selects and evaluates instrumentation and process control systems for the automatic control of a variety of dynamic processes; may supervise employees engaged in the above work; and performs related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. A Bachelor's or Master's degree in engineering from an accredited college or university, which includes 18 semester units or 27 quarter units of Electrical Engineering courses or 12 semester units or 18 quarter units of Chemical or Environmental Engineering course work; and completion of 6 semester units or 9 quarter units of control systems courses; or
2. Certification as an Engineer-In-Training recognized by the State of California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists; or
3. Registration as a Professional Engineer with the State of California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, each applicant is required to submit the Control Systems Engineering Associate Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Control Systems Engineering Associate Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. College seniors who are within six months of graduation from an accredited four-year college or university may apply.  However, you cannot be appointed until you have completed all your course work as described in Requirement No. 1.
3. Applicants qualifying under Requirement No. 1 must provide the following information on their City application.  Applicants who fail to provide the information will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
a. List their school name and location, type of degree earned and major in the Education Section of the online application; and
b. Applicants that have completed courses in electrical engineering or course work in chemical or environmental engineering as stated in Requirement No. 1, must list the course titles with the number of semester or quarter units, school attended and completion dates in the Supplemental Questions Section of the online application; and
c. Applicants that have completed control systems course work as stated in Requirement No. 1, must list the course titles with the number of semester or quarter units, school attended and completion dates in the Supplemental Questions Section of the online application.
4. Applicants filing under Requirement No. 2 or No. 3 must list their Engineer-In-Training (EIT) certification number or Professional Engineer (PE) license number in the Supplemental Questions Section of the on-line application at the time of filing.  Applicants who fail to provide their EIT certification number or PE License number will not be considered further in this examination.
5. Appointments will be made to temporary training positions in accordance with Section 5.30 of the Rules of the Board of Civil Service Commissioners, for a maximum duration of three years.  In order to successfully complete the temporary training period, new appointees must obtain their Engineer-in-Training (EIT) Certificate within three years.  New appointees who do not successfully complete the temporary training period will be terminated from the class.
6. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
7. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency.  A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
8. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.




WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations.


NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from September 8, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

Your examination score will be based entirely on an evaluation of your professional and personal qualifications. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on an adequacy of the candidate's experience, training, education and personal qualifications as they have provided the background necessary to perform the duties of a Control Systems Engineering Associate, including the knowledge of: control and instrumentation theory and application of control systems methods and equipment; computer aided drafting and drafting layout sufficient to understand plans and instrumentation diagrams; computer programming principles and practices sufficient to develop the configuration of control systems; principles and practices of engineering theory and mathematical concepts such as Flow Calculations and Flow Conversion; common communication protocol and physical network topologies; close loop and open loop control systems sufficient to understand the characteristics and differences;  and the ability to communicate in a clear, concise and effective manner; deal tactfully and effectively with employees, other government agencies, industry representatives, and the public and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of NOVEBMER 27, 2017 to DECEMBER 8, 2017.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7230 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .09-08-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 



