CONTRACT ADMINISTRATOR 
                                           	                                               Class Code:  9168
                                                                                                        Open Date:  03-10-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$102,729 to $150,210

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Contract Administrator supervises professional employees engaged in the development, negotiation, preparation, and enforcement of contracts for the design and construction of municipal recreational facilities and public improvement projects for the City of Los Angeles; applies sound supervisory principles and training techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities. 

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid professional architectural or landscape architectural experience at the level of Architect or Landscape Architect, one year of which includes continuing responsibility for the development, negotiation, and enforcement of design and construction contracts to implement capital improvement programs; or
2. Four years of full-time paid professional architectural or landscape architectural experience as an Architectural Associate IV or Landscape Architectural Associate IV with the City of Los Angeles, two years of which includes continuing responsibility for the development, negotiation, and enforcement of design and construction contracts to implement capital improvement programs.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the past 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Completion of college courses in contract law is desired but not required.
4. For qualifying work experience gained outside the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position.  Therefore, to be considered "professional," experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by MARCH 23, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:
       
Examination Weights:	Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
 	Interview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of your professional qualifications by interview. In the interview, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: contract administration procedures in a large organization including development and negotiation of terms, fee setting practices, bid processing and awards enforcement including contract compliance; laws, ordinances, regulations and prevailing business practices relating to contract administration; terminology, conditions and format of contracts, agreements, rental and lease documents; engineering and architectural design and construction principles and practices; sources of information on engineering and architectural design and construction labor and materials costs and rental purchase costs; various types of computer software applications, such as word processing, spread sheets, scheduling, and project management; federal and local contract compliance requirements; Memoranda of Understanding as they relate to subordinate personnel; City personnel rules, practices and procedures; laws and regulations related to Equal Employment Opportunity; the ability to: direct and coordinate a large design and construction contract administration program; analyze and recommend improvements in costs, and procedural terms of contract; explain and negotiate contract terms with prospective contractors; monitor progress and enforce compliance on a large and varied number of design and construction projects; supervise a staff of project managers engaged in developing, negotiating, preparing and enforcing design and construction contracts; prepare clear and concise reports; deal tactfully and effectively with contractors, City officials, management and subordinates and other employees; assess the communities' needs for public facilities; manage and coordinate land acquisition activities; implement and/or manage capital improvement programs; manage design and construction projects; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities. 

At the time of the interview, candidates will be required to prepare a written response to a problem relating to the duties of Contract Administrator. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board members for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate's qualifications. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory essay may be disqualified. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (Personal Computers) will be made available to type their advisory responses. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of MAY 22, 2017 to JUNE 2, 2017. 

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted score of each candidate.
6. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 9168 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .03-10-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

