CORRECTIONAL NURSE	                                           
Class Code:       2317
Open Date:  10-16-15
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)


ANNUAL SALARY

$65,250 to $ 83,290; $ 73,309 to $ 93,584; $91,642 to $99,409

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions. However, candidates with one year of emergency care nursing experience may be considered for appointment to a higher pay grade.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Correctional Nurse performs professional nursing services to arrestees/prisoners in City jails. Duties performed include the following:  utilizing protocols in the provision of care; assisting the medical staff with patient evaluations and treatment; performing phlebotomy for forensic purposes; independently obtaining patient histories and performing patient assessments; performing focused physical examinations; performing diagnostic testing such as EKGs and urinalysis; providing emergency care and performing CPR; conducting sick call rounds; assisting with procedures; creating and maintaining medical records; collecting and documenting work statistics; testifying in court proceedings; may act as lead nurse on an individual shift; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS

1.	A valid Registered Nurse license issued by the California Board of Registered Nursing; and
2.	One year of full-time paid professional nursing experience working in Correctional Care, Critical Care, Emergency Department, Medical-Surgical, or Ambulatory Care Clinic.

NOTES:

1.  In addition to answering the regular City application supplemental questions, each applicant is required to complete a Correctional Nurse Training and Experience Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Correctional Nurse Training and Experience Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Training and Experience Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license.  Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations.



NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter. 
2. All application materials must be completed at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this 
 examination.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

This examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received.  For administrative purposes, filing may close periodically and reopen the following day.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Evaluation of Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of training and experience, wherein candidates may be evaluated on their experience, professional background and personal qualifications as they have provided the necessary knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the work of a Correctional Nurse, including knowledge of: professional nursing theory and practices; and the ability to keep accurate records adhering to all privacy laws and department policies; render medical care within the score of a registered nurse; follow instructions and act independently in conformance with established nursing practices; deal tactfully and effectively with others; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Training and Experience Questionnaires will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the candidate's Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the review panel.

NOTES:	

1. The eligible list resulting from this examination will be used to fill regular full-time positions.
2. Based on City policy, before being hired in this position, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol screening test.
3. Correctional Nurses are assigned to work any of three locations and any of three shifts, depending on Department need.
4. Candidates may file for this examination only once every 180 days during the administration of this examination.  Names may be removed from the open competitive eligible list after six months.
5. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
6. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
7. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
8. Your rank on the employment list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of this examination are merged onto one list. 
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required timeframe; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
 ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 2317 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10-16-15

                                                                                                                                                                                       

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

