DECK HAND
Class Code: 5131
Open Date: 09-30-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$60,823 (flat rated)
The salary in the Harbor Department is $72,641 (flat rated)

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to positions at the lower rate.
2. Positions at the Port Pilot Station require night, holiday, and weekend work for which a higher salary is paid.
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Deck Hand performs deck work and operates the helm on a motor vessel and other related duties.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time (or 4,160 hours) paid experience as a deck hand on a motor vessel.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Deck Hands may be required to undergo pre-employment and post-employment drug testing in accordance with Coast Guard regulations.
4. The Harbor Department requires candidates to complete a Coast Guard approved emergency response training course prior to completing probation.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted online. When you are viewing the online job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. Online job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from September 30, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100% 

The examination will consist entirely of a multiple-choice test. In the multiple-choice test, the following competencies may be evaluated: Safety Focus, Teamwork, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: different types of knots commonly used in rigging and securing operations; different types of splices commonly used to repair old lines and make new lines; methods for securing a vessel to a wharf or another vessel, such as a tow boat to a construction barge; terminology commonly used in a marine environment; hand tools commonly used for splicing ropes and boat maintenance; cleaning methods, acceptable materials, and tools sufficient to keep vessels clean; equipment such as dewatering pumps, capstans, and power winches used to safely operate vessels; navigation principles and aids sufficient to assist with boat operations; proper storage methods for storing lines; maintenance techniques such as polishing boat surfaces; safety precautions such as storm warnings and use of personal protective gear; emergency drill procedures; various components of a vessel; maneuvering techniques for small vessels, and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/jobanalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Deck Hand.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2016, in Los Angeles.

NOTES:		

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin. 
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 	
4. A final average score of 70% in the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list. 
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER



Class Code 5131 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09-30-16

