DELIVERY DRIVER
   Class Code:    1121
 Open Date: 03-23-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$36,519 to $53,390; $39,839 to $58,255; and $43,033 to $62,953 
The salary range in the Department of Water and Power is $36,769 to $45,685; $43,263 to $53,766; and $49,631 to $61,679.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade position.

DUTIES

A Delivery Driver operates a City automobile, station wagon, van, pickup truck, or other light vehicle as a major assignment in delivering and picking up mail, supplies, and department materials; may collect water samples from designated locations for use in laboratory tests; keeps routine records and prepares routine reports; performs routine clerical, messenger, or stockroom duties part of the time.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Current paid employment with the City of Los Angeles; and
2. One year full-time paid experience driving a vehicle performing pick-up and delivery of mail, supplies, parcels, or equipment from other parties.

PROCESS NOTES

1. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
2. Some positions may require a valid California Class B driver's license and a valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles, prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Applicants must be able to lift, carry, and load weights of at least 25 pounds and occasionally over 50 pounds.
4. Part of the physical demands of some positions may include twisting, bending, reaching, stooping, squatting, pulling and pushing, All Purpose Containers (APC) which can weigh up to 300 pounds, and occasionally lifting postal mail trays weighing a minimum of 14 pounds.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations.






NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL 5, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from March 23, 2018 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written Test. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of a weighted multiple-choice test. In the written test, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: the California Vehicle Code and City Traffic Regulations; good driving practices; good safety practices and procedures; and the ability to: understand vehicle gauges and warning devices; read and interpret street guides and maps; follow Emergency Procedures in a vehicle accident or vehicle breakdown; make simple arithmetic calculations; understand and follow oral and/or written instructions; accept supervision and work with others; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, MAY 26, 2018, in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin. 
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 1121 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03-23-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

