DEPARTMENTAL CHIEF ACCOUNTANT

                                                                                                       Class Code:      1593
Open Date:  11-17-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
 
ANNUAL SALARY

$91,913 to $130,771; $96,966 to $137,995; $113,983 to $162,195; and $123,066 to $175,120

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.  
		
DUTIES

A Departmental Chief Accountant plans and directs the commercial and governmental accounting activities for a City department, including such areas as auditing, billing, collections, cash management, investing, cost accounting, accrual accounting, grant accounting, financial report preparation and analysis, and bond financing for capital construction; or assists in planning and directing this work; guides and directs staff in the implementation and application of financial systems; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid professional accounting experience in a class at the level of Principal Accountant with the City of Los Angeles, directing the work of a professional accounting or auditing staff.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. For work experience gained outside the City of Los Angeles to be considered at the appropriate level, six years of full-time paid professional experience performing accounting or auditing work is required; two of the required six years of professional experience must be in a supervisory capacity directing staff in such work.  (Applicants must list their supervisory experience and dates separately on their application.)
3. For qualifying work experience in the Requirement, the term "professional accounting experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional," experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE


Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS


After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory 
                                      Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and background as they demonstrate the knowledge of: commercial and governmental accounting theory; generally accepted accounting procedures; auditing and cost accounting methods and procedures; public finance concepts and administration; accounting systems and financial structures of City departments; City Charter, Administrative Code, and ordinances relating to the financial administration of City departments; information technology used in the maintenance of accounting records; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including delegating, directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending and evaluating the work of subordinates; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) policies and Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) as they apply to subordinate personnel; and the ability to analyze the financial activities of large or numerous governmental units and prepare comprehensive written reports about such financial activities; establish and adhere to internal control frameworks in order to ensure the successful completion of various tasks and assignments; successfully function and remain flexible in a dynamic environment with changing priorities and multiple critical deadlines; plan, organize, and direct the work of a large accounting division; supervise professional, technical, and clerical personnel engaged in accounting activities; communicate effectively, both orally and in writing; deal tactfully and effectively with others, including governmental officials, management, subordinates, coworkers, and the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JANUARY 29, 2018 to FEBRUARY 9, 2018.

Prior to the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Departmental Chief Accountant. This material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates who fail to complete the Advisory Essay as instructed may be disqualified. 

The Advisory Essay will be administered online. Candidates invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps needed to complete the online Advisory Essay. Candidates will be required to complete the online Advisory Essay on SATURDAY, JANUARY 6, 2018. Additional instructions will be sent via e-mail. 


NOTES:

1. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
4. Candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those City classes which provide qualifying experience for this position. A maximum of one point will be added to the score of those candidates.
5. A final score of 70% on the interview is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period under the provisions of Charter Section 1011.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 1593 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11-17-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

