DIRECTOR OF AIRPORT MARKETING
Class Code:       1768
Open Date:  04-27-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$123,066 to $179,943 

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

The Director of Airport Marketing directs professional staff in the development and implementation of an overall marketing strategy and comprehensive advertising program to increase international and domestic business opportunities to Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA); and supervise professional staff engaged in activities designed to attract and retain new business ventures to Los Angeles World Airports. An incumbent develops and implements a strategic marketing plan to guide all aspects of marketing efforts; drives strategy and executive marketing initiatives for LAX brand awareness, new projects, status updates, and rebranding campaigns; applies sound management principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective workforce; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; may personally perform marketing duties, and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. A Bachelor's Degree from an accredited college or university; and	
2. Four years of full-time paid professional experience in the development and implementation of air service related marketing, or managing logistics and the organization of trade shows or marketing events for a large organization; or overseeing projects and making recommendations to a board or commission which approves event use, renovations, tours, projects or related development or marketing activities.

Appointment to a position in this class is subject to a one-year probationary period under the provisions of Section 1011 of the City Charter.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Director of Airport Marketing Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Director of Airport Marketing Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaires will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
3. For qualifying work experience in Requirement #2, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional," experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
4. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not be eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
5. Every candidate that is scheduled for a civil service interview will be required to complete their interview on an electronic device (i.e., computer, mobile device, tablet, etc.) using the video messaging program Skype. In order to use Skype you must have the following program and equipment prior to your scheduled interview date and time: an up-to-date electronic device that meets the minimum system requirements to run Skype, the latest version of Skype downloaded on your device (please go to http://www.skype.com/en/ and click the download Skype icon), internet connection (a high-speed broadband connection is recommended), a built-in or external webcam (high-quality or HD webcam is recommended), and a microphone and speakers (built-in or external). Please visit https://support.skype.com/en/faq/FA10328/what-are-the-system-requirements-for-skype in order to view the system requirements for running Skype on different operating systems. You may also visit https://support.skype.com/en/faq/FA597/what-do-i-need-to-make-a-video-call for more details on what you will need in order to make a video call, for information about call and video quality, and to determine if your computer meets the hardware requirements. If you need any additional help using Skype please visit https://support.skype.com/en/. On the support webpage some helpful links can be found under the headings: Video calling and Skype for devices.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.


NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 10, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file for two years in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Director of Airport Marketing may be evaluated based on the candidate's responses to the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Director of Airport Marketing based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of: consumer behavior, consumer research, marketing principles and strategies, and sound business judgment sufficient to effectively market and promote the airport; supervisory principles and practices such as directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending, and evaluating subordinates' work; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures including Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO); and the ability to review and evaluate marketing and promotional activities; make decisions on courses of action based on feasibility, impact on operations, and cost; develop a comprehensive marketing strategy and plan for Los Angeles World Airports in order to effectively market and promote the airport; use various social media outlets, such as Facebook, Youtube, Instagram, Twitter, and Snapchat, as a promotional tool; plan, direct, evaluate, and supervise the work of others engaged in promotion and marketing work, including the development and implementation of specific marketing plans and related activities; exercise sound leadership, administrative and technical judgment, originality and initiative in recommending new or revised methods, procedures, programs, and solutions to difficult or sensitive problems;  prepare clear and concise written material utilizing proper grammar and punctuation in order to write comprehensive strategic marketing reports, press releases, and executive memo; communicate orally, on a one-to-one or group basis, sufficient to motivate or influence individuals at a variety of levels; deal tactfully and effectively with individuals such as airport guests, government agencies, and representatives from other organizations sufficient to communicate goals and objectives; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

As part of their evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. The Qualifications Questionnaire will not be separately scored but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate's qualifications. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the interview panel.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date and time of the interview. All candidates that are scheduled for an interview will be required to complete the interview on an electronic device (i.e., computer, mobile device, tablet, etc.) using the video messaging program Skype. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JULY 2, 2018 TO JULY 13, 2018. 

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated in this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required in the interview portion of the examination to be placed on the eligible list.
4. Promotional candidates will accrue seniority credits at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those City classes which provide qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of the candidates.
5. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. In conjunction with Civil Services Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
8. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores, all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1768 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04-27-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


