DIRECTOR OF AIRPORTS ADMINISTRATION	REVISED
					
					                                                  Class Code:       9302
Open Date:   01-27-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$141,859 to $201,868

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

Plans, directs, and coordinates the administrative activities of the Department of Airports.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
	
1. Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles at the level of Chief Management Analyst supervising staff engaged in human resources management; budget and financial planning; RFP and contract development, review and administration; or airport operations; or 
2. Three years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles, Department of Airports at the level of Senior Management Analyst II supervising staff engaged in human resources management; budget and financial planning; RFP and contract development, review and administration; or airport operations; or
3. Three years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles, Department of Airports as an Executive Assistant Airports, representing Airport executive management on operational, administrative, or community relations issues.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also made available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter. 



APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Training and Experience Questionnaire . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of a Training and Experience Questionnaire. In the Training and Experience Questionnaire candidates may be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, training, professional background and personal qualifications, including knowledge of: the major principles and practices of administration, organization, and management; the principles and practices of public personnel administration and labor relations; provisions of the City Charter, ordinances, and laws pertaining to accounting, auditing, personnel administration, and equal employment opportunity; contracting standards and practices; and the ability to: supervise subordinate technical and professional management personnel; meet and deal tactfully and effectively with officials, employees, and the public; and other necessary knowledge, skills and abilities. 

 The Training and Experience Questionnaire of all candidates will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation.  The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications as described on the Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the expert review panel. 

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the time and location of the written test. The Training and Experience Questionnaire will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, APRIL 1, 2017, in Los Angeles. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their responses to the Training and Experience Questionnaire.   


NOTES:

1. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
2. Candidates will accrue seniority credit at a rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those classes, which provide qualifying experience for this position. A maximum of one point will be added to the score of the candidates.
3. Appointment to a position in this class is subject to a one-year probationary period under Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
4. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that minimum qualifications have been met. 
5. A final score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title ll of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability, and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS ONLY

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
  

Class Code 9302. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 01-27-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER



