DIRECTOR OF AIRPORT OPERATIONS

Class Code:          9304
Open Date:     06-23-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$141,858 to $201,867

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Director of Airport Operations plans, coordinates and directs through subordinate managers, the Los Angeles International Airport ground operations, including the use of airport facilities, law enforcement and construction and maintenance; participates in planning and coordinating modifications to airport facilities to accommodate airport tenants and passengers; and applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Current employment with the City of Los Angeles; and
2. Four years of full-time paid experience at the level of Airport Manager with the City of Los Angeles, responsible for a major function of airport operations; or
3. For qualifying experience gained outside the City of Los Angeles, five years of full-time paid experience as a director responsible for a major function of airport operations at a large commercial service airport as defined by the Federal Aviation Administration.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be submitted on-line by THURSDAY, JULY 6, 2017.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of a training and experience questionnaire, wherein candidates will be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background, and personal qualifications and abilities. Emphasis may be placed on the candidate's background and experience as they provide the knowledge of: the organization and structure of the Department of Airports, including the functions and interrelationships of its divisions; practices and procedures involved in sound business relations with airlines, tenants, and permittees; security measures involved in the protection of persons, and public and private property; airline operational procedures and aviation industry terminology; local, state, and federal laws, policies, and procedures pertaining to airport systems and operations; pertinent City and Personnel department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity policies and Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) as they relate to subordinate personnel; management and supervisory principles and practices, including directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending and evaluating the work of subordinates; and the ability to plan, organize, coordinate, and direct, through subordinate managers, a comprehensive guest experience program; analyze and develop logical and effective solutions to operation problems at a major international airport; use sound judgment and take timely and appropriate action in both routine and emergency situations; strategize and implement the Department of Airport's goals and objectives through a strategic plan; oversee and lead a diverse workforce engaged in complex field and office airport activities; motivate, drive change, and instill a process improvement mindset in subordinate employees; estimate needed staffing and resources; communicate effectively, both orally and in writing; collaborate, coordinate, and deal tactfully and effectively with others, including employees, airport tenants, airline representatives, community leaders, business partners, and the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.
 
Training and Experience Questionnaires will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation.  The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications as described on the candidate's Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the expert review panel.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the Training and Experience Questionnaire writing session, which will be administered in a single, half-day session on SATURDAY, AUGUST 26, 2017, in Los Angeles. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their responses to the Training and Experience Questionnaire. 

NOTES:

1. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those City classes which provide qualifying experience for this position. A maximum of one point will be added to the score of those candidates.
4. A final score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period under the provisions of Charter Section 1011.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
8. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
9. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
10. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.


THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  

Class Code 9304. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06-23-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

