


DIRECTOR OF HOUSING
Class Code:       1568
Open Date:  06-23-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

											
ANNUAL SALARY

$120,644 to $171,654

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Director of Housing plans, directs and coordinates a large staff of professional, technical, skilled crafts, paraprofessional, and clerical employees engaged in the administration of the City's affordable housing development, home ownership, strategic planning and policy, and housing rehabilitation programs; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective workforce; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid professional experience at the level of Community Housing Programs Manager which provides experience in the supervision of professional staff engaged in the administration of a government or private housing development, home ownership, development finance, asset management, occupancy monitoring, or rehabilitation program.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position.  Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
4. In addition to the regular City application form, all applicants must complete the Director of Housing Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Director of Housing Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
 
WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs  for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be completed at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, JULY 6, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from June 23, 2017, in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

EXPERT REVIEW COMMITTEE

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, an Expert Review Committee may be assembled to evaluate each candidate's qualification for the position of Director of Housing. In this evaluation, the Expert Review Committee will assess each candidate's training and experience based upon the information in the candidate's City employment application and the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered by the Expert Review Committee as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Director of Housing, based solely on the information presented to the committee, will be invited to participate in the interview.


SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 and Expert Review as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

Your examination score will be based entirely on your professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and professional development as they demonstrate knowledge of: principles, methods, and techniques of affordable housing and permanent supportive development and finance, home ownership, preservation, innovative financing, land development negotiation, housing rehabilitation, asset management, and affordable housing policy; how federal and state grants and local and private funding resources are best utilized for programs; rules and regulations affecting low income housing tax credits, conduit bond financing, and taxable and tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds; City's housing needs, resources, and programs; the organization and activities of agencies, organizations and businesses involved in programs; major principles, practices, methods and techniques of supervision including Equal Employment Opportunity; the ability to: plan, organize, direct, and evaluate the work of a variety of staff; measure and track the effectiveness of the division's work product and timeliness; identify relevant issues and develop reasonable responses and solutions; develop subordinates through training and performance feedback and to motivate subordinates to maximize productivity; identify priorities for public investment in affordable housing in order to make recommendations about where investments should be made and what investments should be made to achieve priority outcomes; deal tactfully and effectively with public officials, employees, neighborhoods organizations, and the public; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities. 

As part of their evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will consider the information in the Qualifications Questionnaire. Candidates may expect the panel members to discuss this information during the interview. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interviews, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of AUGUST 21, 2017 to SEPTEMBER 1, 2017.

NOTES:

1. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
2. Promotional candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in a class which provides qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of those candidates.
3. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit as indicated above, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
6. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
8. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met. 
9. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
10. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required timeframe; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice: 

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 1568 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  06-23-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

