DIVISION LIBRARIAN
Class Code:       6157
Open Date:  01-27-17
REVISED: 02-22-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$120,645 to $171,654

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Division Librarian plans, organizes, and directs the work of professional and support library personnel who are providing library services to the public or supporting library services in a major division of the Los Angeles Public Library; heads a major library division such as Central Library Services, Branch Library Services, Emerging Technologies and Collections, or Engagement and Learning; assists with budget and financial reporting; assists with strategic planning activities; may represent the Library Department before elected officials, municipal agencies, and other public and private organizations; applies sound supervisory and management principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid professional experience as a Principal Librarian with the City of Los Angeles; or
2. A master's degree in Library Science or Library and Information Science from a school accredited by the American Library Association and two years of full-time paid professional librarian experience, at the level of Principal Librarian with the City of Los Angeles, working in areas such as:
-	Coordinating and developing library services, establishing library operating policies and procedures, and effectively utilizing library personnel to ensure full public services throughout a library system or region;
-	Administering the maintenance and development of a library materials collection throughout a library system, region, or in a central library subject department;
-	Administering cooperative programs with schools, community groups, and businesses to define appropriate library services throughout a library system or region.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Division Librarian Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Division Librarian Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. In Requirement #2, the term "professional librarian experience" applies to positions that require possession of a master's degree in Library Science or Library and Information Science from a school accredited by the American Library Association in order to obtain that position.  Therefore, to be considered "professional," qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining such a degree.
5. Experience working in a diverse community and supervising a minimum staff of 50 is especially desired.
6. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by the American Library Association. A list of approved institutions can be found at http://www.ala.org/accreditedprograms/directory/alphalist.
7. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.
8. Every candidate that is scheduled for a civil service interview will be required to complete their interview on an electronic device (i.e. computer, mobile device, tablet, etc.) using the video messaging program Skype. In order to use Skype you must have the following program and equipment prior to your scheduled interview date and time: an up-to-date electronic device that meets the minimum system requirements to run Skype, the latest version of Skype downloaded on your device (please go to http://www.skype.com/en/ and click the download Skype icon), internet connection (a high-speed broadband connection is recommended), a built-in or external webcam (high-quality or HD webcam is recommended), and a microphone and speakers (built-in or external). Please visit https://support.skype.com/en/faq/FA10328/what-are-the-system-requirements-for-skype in order to view the system requirements for running Skype on different operating systems. You may also visit https://support.skype.com/en/faq/FA597/what-do-i-need-to-make-a-video-call for more details on what you will need in order to make a video call, for information about call and video quality, and to determine if your computer meets the hardware requirements. If you need any additional help using Skype please visit https://support.skype.com/en/. On the support webpage some helpful links can be found under the headings: Video calling and Skype for devices. 

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training in one or more of the following areas.  Only persons possessing experience in one or more of the following areas as of the close of the filing period may be considered for appointment to fill such positions. 

1. Five years of full-time paid experience managing or directing the day-to-day operations of branch libraries; or
2. Five years of full-time paid experience managing and developing a library system's electronic network including its Integrated Library System, library applications, Internet services, Web development, emerging technologies and innovative virtual services; or 
3. Five years of full-time paid experience developing, managing and implementing a library system's digital strategy, including patron-centered digital services, activities, programs and initiatives.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations.

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, MARCH 9, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from January 27, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Division Librarian may be evaluated based on the candidate's responses to the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Division Librarian based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%
	
The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the candidate's experience and training as they relate to the knowledge of: activities, goals, and services of public libraries; administrative and professional issues within the library profession, and strategies for addressing them; principles and procedures of library organization and administration, including policy formulation, budget preparation, employee selection, and coordination of activities and services; general project management principles; best practices and innovation in public libraries; the value of diversity in a workforce, library programs, and communities; traditional and emerging technologies; supervisory principles and practices, including planning, delegating, directing the work of subordinates, and Equal Employment Opportunity; techniques for counseling, disciplining, training, instructing, motivating, and evaluating subordinate personnel; the ability to: use appropriate techniques for conflict resolution; use independent judgment to analyze and effectively resolve library issues, as well as future planning; understand impacts on library service resulting from changes in telecommunications and technology; address and resolve employee issues and grievances; plan, organize, and direct the activities of a major library division; speak effectively before groups; deal tactfully and effectively with other library managers, City department heads, City Council and Library Commission members, subordinate supervisors and employees, media, the public, and other stakeholders; work, coordinate, and function with a diverse workforce; build consensus for library initiatives; prepare and edit correspondence reports in an accurate and complete manner using principles of proper English usage, punctuation, spelling, and grammar; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

Additionally, the interview board will consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire in their overall evaluation of the candidates' qualifications. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date and time of the interview. All candidates that are scheduled for an interview will be required to complete the interview on an electronic device (i.e., computer, mobile device, tablet, etc.) using the video messaging program Skype. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of APRIL 10, 2017 to APRIL 21, 2017.

NOTES:

1. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those classes which provide qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of the candidate.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. Appointments to a position in this class are subject to a one-year probationary period under the provisions of Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered open candidates.
8. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
9. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications are met.
10. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:
If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 6157 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 01-27-17 REV 03-09-17 

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

