ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING ASSOCIATE
Class Code:       7525
Open Date:  09-30-16
REVISED: 10-04-16
 (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY 

$66,231 to $94,252; $74,082 to $105,444; $82,497 to $117,346; and $89,638 to $127,556
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $77,360 to $96,110; $91,934 to $114,213; $99,722 to $123,881; and $107,156 to 
$133,130

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Electrical Engineering Associate performs professional electrical engineering work in the preparation of designs, plans, specifications, engineering economic and cost analysis studies, schedules, contracts and reports for electrical systems and equipment, buildings and marine facilities and equipment; conducts quality assurance and safety testing, inspection, and research activities; provides technical direction in the licensing, design, construction, installation, maintenance, and operation of a wide variety of electrical systems and equipment; may perform code enforcement functions relating to designs and specifications of electrical installations and equipment approval; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. A Bachelor's or Master's degree in engineering from an accredited college or university, which includes at least 24 semester units or 36 quarter units of core courses in electrical engineering; or
2. Certification as an Engineer-In-Training recognized by the State of California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists; or
3. Registration as a Professional Engineer in Electrical Engineering with the State of California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all candidates must complete the Electrical Engineering Associate Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Electrical Engineering Associate Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions of the City Application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who are within six months of graduation from an accredited college or university may apply. However, you cannot be appointed until you have completed all your course work, including the 24 semester units or 36 quarter units described in Requirement No. 1.
3. You may take the Electrical Engineering Associate interview only once every 365 days. If you have taken the Electrical Engineering Associate interview in a campus environment, a special recruitment event, or during an open filing period in the Personnel Department within the last 12 months, you may not file for this examination at this time.
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
5. Applicants filing under Requirement No. 1 must indicate the engineering courses completed and include the name of the school, course credit earned, and grade received in the Supplemental Questions Section of the on-line application. Applicants who fail to do so will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
6. Applicants filing under Requirement No. 2 or No. 3 must list their Engineer-in-Training (EIT) certification number or Professional Engineer (PE) registration number in the Supplemental Questions Section of the on-line application.  At the time of appointment, candidates must submit to the department which appoints them verification of their EIT certification or PE license.
7. Appointments will be made to temporary training positions in accordance with Section 5.30 of the Rules of the Board of Civil Service Commissioners for a maximum duration of three years. In order to successfully complete the temporary training period, new appointees must obtain their Engineer-in-Training (EIT) Certificate within three years.  New appointees who do not successfully complete the temporary training period will be terminated from the class.
8. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
9. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree. 

1. 
WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.  

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the following three days: from 8:00 A.M, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2016; WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2016; TO MIDNIGHT, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2016.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from September 30, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Electrical Engineering Associate may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of an Electrical Engineering Associate based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated:  Reading Comprehension, Mathematics, Judgment and Decision Making, Safety Focus, including knowledge of: safety principles and practices pertaining to the planning, design, construction, operation, maintenance, testing, and research activities related to electrical engineering and the inherent dangers associated with electrical systems or components and safety codes and standards applicable to the work environment, Electrical Understanding, including knowledge of: the principles and practices of electrical engineering as applied to the planning, design, construction, operation, maintenance, testing and research of facilities; the principles and practices of engineering theory and mathematical concepts such as volt drop calculations and short circuit analyses; and plans, specifications, and drawings used in electrical engineering work, including schematic drawings, wiring diagrams and construction plans, Oral Communication, Written Communication and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: scheduling practices, such as job-sequence schedules and other methods followed in engineering work including the critical-path method; the State of California renewable energy, sustainability, and energy saving requirements; and computer applications related to electrical engineering, such as Load Flow, Reliability, and Fault Analysis and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Electrical Engineering Associate. 

The Qualifications Questionnaire will not be separately scored, but will be considered by the interview board in evaluating each candidate's qualifications. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of NOVEMBER 28, 2016 TO DECEMBER 9, 2016.  

NOTES:

1. This examination is based validation study.
2. Your rank on the employment list may change as the scores of candidates from other administrations of this examination are merged onto one list.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protest as provided in 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code:  7525 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09-30-16 REV 10-04-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

