ELECTRIC STATION OPERATOR
                                                                                                     
                                                                                                     Class Code:       5224
                                                                                                     Open Date:  07-07-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$55,415 to $68,841; $56,835 to $70,616; $87,633 (flat-rated); $96,465 (flat-rated); $103,543 (flat-rated); and $105,423 (flat-rated)

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Electric Station Operator operates high voltage electric and auxiliary equipment in hydroelectric generating, receiving and distributing stations and in high voltage DC Converter Plants; performs routine inspections, meter readings, and cleaning of high voltage equipment and facilities; prepares reports and documentation related to work activities in station; and does other related duties.

NOTES:

1. All entry-level positions are temporary training positions as defined in Civil Service Commission Rule 5.30.  An Electric Station Operator must successfully complete a two-year intensive on-the-job and classroom training program in order to receive an appointment to a regular Electric Station Operator position.
2. Assignments are subject to rotating shifts and various work locations throughout the City's power system.
3. A trainee must be able to communicate in English in a readily understandable manner and must be able to write clearly and legibly in English.
4. A trainee will be required to climb a ladder up to 40 feet in height and perform work activities in elevated positions; carry a forty-pound load for a minimum distance of 100 feet; and hold a one and one-half inch fire hose at a minimum operating pressure of 100 psi for the purpose of washing insulators.
5. See the corresponding "Job Preview" for additional information regarding the duties of an Electric Station Operator in a trainee and/or regular position.  The Job Preview is available on-line at http://per.lacity.org/exams/ElectricStationOperatorJobPreview.pdf. 

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Completion of at least eight months in the Utility Pre-Craft Trainee training program sponsored by the Department of Water and Power; or
2. One year of full time paid experience in electrical or mechanical work involving the operation, maintenance, or repair of electrical generating and distribution equipment such as found in an electric generating plant or receiving and distribution stations, or electrical distribution systems, including those of major industrial facilities such as oil refineries, chemical plants, or water treatment plants; or
3. One year of full time experience performing work on electrical equipment and circuits in the maintenance or construction of electrical systems while in the United States Armed Forces; or
4. Successful completion of three semester units or four quarter units from an accredited college or university or trade school in physics, chemistry, electricity, or electronics; or 
5. Successful completion of one year of high school level course work in physics, chemistry, electricity, or electronics; or
6. Successful completion of the Hayden or Delmar Electricity course sponsored by the Department of Water and Power.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 who lack two months or less of the required training may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until at least eight months in the Utility Pre-Craft Trainee training program has been completed.
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 or #3 who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met. 
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #4, #5, or #6 must list the name(s) and completion date(s) of the applicable course(s) along with the name of the institution attended in the text box which appears in the Supplemental Questions section of the on-line application. 
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
5. Active United States Military personnel may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until they have completed their military service and have been discharged with satisfactory performance. Proof of military service and satisfactory performance must be provided prior to appointment.
6. Applicants filing under Requirement #3 must submit at the time of filing their application a copy of their DD-214 or a copy of their military identification indicating End of Active Obligated Service (EAOS) date within six months from the application date. The copy of the DD-214 or military identification with EAOS must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the copy is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and the applicant WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the DD-214 or military identification with EAOS at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.
7. Applicants filing under Requirement #6 must submit a copy of their certificate of completion at the time of filing. A copy of the applicable certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and the applicant WILL NOT be credited with submitting it. Applicants who fail to submit the certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.
8. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency.  A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
9. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying coursework.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from July 7, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.
 
APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JULY 20, 2017.


SELECTION PROCESS
	
After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:   Written Test  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
                                        Performance Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%
	
The examination will consist of a qualifying multiple-choice written test and a performance test. In the multiple-choice written test, candidates may be examined for the ability to: read, understand and follow complex and/or technical written instructions and procedures; perform basic mathematical calculations; interpret readings from various indicating and recording instruments such as kilowatt meters, voltage meters, and ammeters; general knowledge of electricity, including Ohm's law and series and parallel circuits; spatial relationships; basic safety practices and procedures, including the hazards of working near energized equipment; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the qualifying written test which will be administered in a single half-day session on SUNDAY, AUGUST 27, 2017 in Los Angeles. 

Passing Score for Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying written test in order to be invited for the performance test. The performance test will be scheduled periodically, as vacancies arise.

The examination score will be based entirely on the performance test. In the performance test, candidates may be examined for the ability to: follow complex written and oral instructions; monitor equipment and relay pertinent information accurately; effectively and accurately prioritize and organize tasks; read and accurately record detailed information; orally communicate in a clear, concise, and effective manner; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time and location of the performance test, which will be held in Los Angeles.

NOTES:
	
1. This examination is based on a validation study and as provided by the Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate review.
2. Based on City policy, before being hired in one of these positions, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% in the performance portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You may take this examination once every 365 days.  Your name may be removed from the open competitive list after 6 months.
7. Your rank on the employment list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of this examination are merged onto one list. 

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 5224 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07-07-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

