




ELECTRIC METER SETTER

Class Code:       3822
Open Date:  01-20-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)



ANNUAL SALARY

$70,386 to $74,311 and $89,032 (flat-rated)

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

An entry-level Electric Meter Setter works as a trainee under close supervision assisting journey-level Electric Meter Setters in the performance of their duties. Trainees receive extensive classroom training as well as on-the-job training. A journey-level Electric Meter Setter installs, changes and removes a large variety of electric meters and metering equipment on the premises of industrial, commercial and domestic consumers, and performs related work. 

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. One year of full-time paid experience as a helper in an electrical trade; or
2. Completion of eight months as a Utility Pre-Craft Trainee (UPCT) with the LADWP performing duties as a helper in an electrical trade. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. All entry-level positions in this class are temporary training positions as defined in Civil Service Commission Rule 5.30. An Electric Meter Setter must successfully complete an extensive on-the-job and classroom training program within eighteen months in order to receive an appointment to a regular Electric Meter Setter position.
2. For applicants filing under Requirement #1, successful completion of the LADWP approved Hayden or Delmar's electricity course(s) may be substituted for six months of full-time paid experience.
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 who lack two months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met. 
4. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 must submit with the application a City of Los Angeles "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form, signed by their supervisor, verifying their experience as a helper in an electrical trade. The VWE form should indicate the type of work performed and the amount of time spent performing such work. The form may be downloaded at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf or may be obtained at the Personnel Department, Room 100, 700 E. Temple Street, Los Angeles, CA 90012. Candidates may attach the completed Verification of Work (VWE) form to their on-line application at the time of filing or will have seven (7) calendar days from the on-line submission date to submit a copy of their completed VWE form to: Personnel Department, Room 100, E. Temple Street, Los Angeles, CA 90012. Candidates who fail to submit a copy of their VWE form within the time required will not be considered candidates in this examination and their applications will not be processed. 
5. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from January 20, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of a multiple-choice written test in which candidates may be examined for knowledge of: basic electrical theory pertaining to voltage, current and watts; basic safety principles and practices such as procedures for working near energized lines or equipment, and use of protective clothing and equipment; elementary mechanics sufficient to safely handle and place materials and equipment so that they are balanced and stable; mathematics sufficient to calculate current-voltage relationships; safe driving practices and principles; the ability to identify voltage classifications; use and care for hand tools, power tools, and testing equipment; read and interpret materials such as instructions, work orders, maintenance manuals, or codes; follow directions; read and interpret street maps and diagrams; deal tactfully and effectively with City employees and the public; and other necessary skills,  knowledge, and abilities. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session in Los Angeles, on SATURDAY, MARCH 25, 2017.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
7. The promotional list will be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.


THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 3822. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 01-20-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

