ELECTRIC TROUBLE DISPATCHER
Class Code:       3828
                         Open Date:  06-30-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$64,352 to $79,949; $74,896 to $93,041; and $78,675 to $97,739

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

An Electric Trouble Dispatcher receives and analyzes electric trouble complaints, and dispatches personnel and equipment to clear and repair the trouble and restore service; operates various computer systems programs and updates data bases related to computerized Electric Trouble Dispatching; receives reports from field crews and relays information to other sections and divisions; updates necessary maps, drawings, and prints; prepares and forwards repair memos and other information to other business groups and teams; arranges for and issues Work Authorities on overhead and underground circuits; and plans, schedules, and directs switching on the Department's 7,500-volt and below overhead and underground circuits, lines and equipment under the jurisdiction of the Electric Trouble Board.

NOTES:

1. All entry-level positions are temporary training positions as defined in Civil Service Commission Rule 5.30. An Electric Trouble Dispatcher must successfully complete a twenty-four week (approximately six months) intensive on-the-job and classroom training program in order to receive an appointment to a regular Electric Trouble Dispatcher position. There are two three-month phases of training.
2. An Electric Trouble Dispatcher is subject to working nights, holidays, and weekends.
3. An Electric Trouble Dispatcher is subject to 24-hour call-out during power system emergencies.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION
         
Four years of full-time paid experience in the construction, operation, maintenance, or repair of electrical transmission or distribution equipment, street lighting electrical equipment, or electrical systems used in residential, commercial, or industrial installations.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.	
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JULY 13, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from June 30, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications and in accordance with Rule 4.2, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:  Written Test. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying
				  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%
         
The examination will consist of a qualifying multiple choice written test and an interview. The written test will consist of multiple choice questions in which candidates may be examined for knowledge of: general electrical construction plans, street lighting systems, and 7,500-volt distribution systems; principles of electricity sufficient to analyze electric trouble calls, determine equipment requirements, and write technical reports summarizing electric trouble calls; City departments such as police and fire, and also 911 emergency system sufficient to direct consumer calls to appropriate authority when necessary; map drawings and symbols; arithmetic including addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division; computer programs sufficient to elicit general electric trouble dispatcher information and write memos; alphabetical and numerical filing systems; and the ability to: read and comprehend schematic maps of electrical systems; read Thomas Guide and other maps; write sufficiently to complete logs, narrative reports, and memos; read and interpret reference guides and operating orders; interact tactfully and effectively with co-workers, the public, and supervisors; take telephone calls in a courteous manner; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

The qualifying written test will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2017, in Los Angeles.  Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test.

Passing Score for Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying multiple choice test in order to be scheduled for the interview. 

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's background, work experience, and personal qualifications as they have prepared the candidate to perform the duties of an Electric Trouble Dispatcher, including knowledge of: general electrical construction plans and street lighting systems; electrical principles sufficient to determine degree of urgency in electric trouble calls, determine equipment requirements, and write related technical reports; the ability to make independent decisions regarding work loads, type of trouble, personnel assignments, and availability of equipment; communicate effectively in writing sufficient to complete reports; communicate orally in a clear, concise, and effective manner; deal tactfully and effectively with coworkers, the public, and supervisors; interact tactfully with irate consumers; multitask; adapt to unusual work schedules; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

NOTES:	

1. This examination is based on a validation study. 
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
4. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 3828 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06-30-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 

