ELECTRICAL MECHANIC		
Class Code:       3841
Open Date: 01-20-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY 

$69,655 to $99,514 

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf. 
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES  

An Electrical Mechanic performs skilled mechanical and electrical work in the installation and maintenance of high and low voltage electrical circuits and related equipment at electrical stations and plants such as electrical substations; receiving, distributing, and customer stations; steam generating stations; water pumping and chlorinating stations; converter stations; hydro-electric plants; high voltage switching stations; and similar facilities and buildings; and performs other related duties.

Electrical Mechanics may work at heights of up to 280 feet, near hazardous materials, and in confined spaces.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Six months of full-time paid experience performing electrical work on equipment and circuits in the maintenance or construction of electrical systems; or  
2. Six months, within the last two years, of full-time paid experience as an exempt Construction Electrical Mechanic or Construction Electrical Helper with the City of Los Angeles Department of Water and Power performing electrical work on equipment and circuits in the maintenance or construction of electrical systems; or
3. Completion of at least eight months in the Utility Pre-Craft Trainee training program sponsored by the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, assisting in the performance of electrical work on high and low voltage equipment and circuits in the maintenance or construction of electrical systems; or
4. Six months of full-time experience performing electrical work on equipment and circuits in the maintenance or construction of electrical systems while in the United States Armed Forces; or
5. Certificate of completion of the Electrical Construction & Maintenance (ECM) program at Los Angeles Trade Technical College; or 
6. Certificate of completion of the Hayden Course sponsored by the Department of Water and Power; or
7. Certificate of completion of an electrical lineworker program from an accredited college.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In accordance with Section 608 of the Clean Air Act, an Environmental Protection Agency approved Technician Certificate may be required for some positions prior to appointment.
2. All entry-level positions are temporary training positions as defined in Civil Service Commission Rule 5.30.  An Electrical Mechanic in a trainee position must successfully complete an intensive on-the-job and classroom-training program in order to promote to a regular Electrical Mechanic position. It is anticipated that the training program may last up to 54 months. 
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #3 who lack two months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
4. Applicants filing under Requirement #3 must submit with their application a City of Los Angeles "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form, signed by their supervisor, verifying their experience performing electrical work on high and low voltage equipment and circuits in the maintenance or construction of electrical systems.  This form may be obtained on-line at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf. Applicants may attach the completed VWE form to their on-line application at the time of filing, or will have 7 calendar days from the submittal of their on-line application to deliver the VWE form to the Personnel Department at 700 East Temple Street, Room 100, Los Angeles, CA  90012.  Applicants who fail to submit a copy of their VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed. 
5. Active United States Military personnel may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until they have completed their military service and have been discharged with satisfactory performance.
6. Applicants filing under Requirement #4 must submit at the time of filing their application a copy of their DD-214 or a copy of their military identification indicating an End of Active Obligated Service (EAOS) date within six months from the application date. The copy of the DD-214 or military identification with EAOS must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the copy is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the DD-214 or military identification with  EAOS at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.
7. Applicants filing under Requirement #5 must submit a copy of their Certificate of Completion at the time of filing. The copy of the Certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the Certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the Certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.
8. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
9. Appointments from the eligible list are normally made to entry-level positions. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 may be considered for appointment to a regular (journey-level) Electrical Mechanic position. However, they must have completed an IBEW inside wireman apprenticeship program and may be required to successfully pass written and/or performance tests.  Proof of completion of the recognized apprenticeship program must be submitted to the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power at the time of appointment.
1. 
10. An Electrical Mechanic must be designated as an Authorized Person, which permits one to hold Work Authorities, prior to completion of probation as a journey-level Electrical Mechanic.
11. Applicants filing under Requirement #6 and/or Requirement #7 must submit a copy of their certificate of completion at the time of filing. A copy of the applicable certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and the applicant WILL NOT be credited with submitting it. Applicants who fail to submit the certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.
12. Please note that qualifying education under Requirement #7 must be from a college accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure time to resolve any technical issues encountered. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed below:

From 8:00 am MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2017 to 11:59 PM, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2017
From 8:00 am MONDAY, MAY 1, 2017 to 11:59 PM, FRIDAY, MAY 5, 2017
From 8:00 am MONDAY, AUGUST 7, 2017 to 11:59 PM, FRIDAY, AUGUST 11, 2017
From 8:00 am MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2017 to 11:59 PM, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2017

The examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. Filing periods may change without prior notice or additional dates may be added, as needed, at a later date. For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen on the dates noted in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin.

SELECTION PROCESS     

After meeting minimum qualifications as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying  
			   Performance Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying written test and performance test. In the qualifying written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, candidates may be examined for knowledge of scales and units of measurement used in electric stations; hand and power tools; arithmetic and algebra; the ability to read scales, dials, and digital readouts; visualize effects of forces upon a given load (mechanical comprehension); using street maps; oral/written communication; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

Passing Score for Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

The first written test will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, APRIL 8, 2017 in Los Angeles. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test. Additional test dates may be added as needed. 

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying multiple-choice test in order to be scheduled for the performance test. The examination score will be based entirely on the performance test. The Performance Test will consist of a series of exercises in which candidates may be examined for: knowledge of hand and power tools; ability to lift up to 70 pounds unassisted; physical agility sufficient to climb, balance, and/or reach in confined spaces; manual dexterity; ability to measure materials accurately; ability to perform tasks using color-identified materials; the ability to follow written instructions; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate review.
2. Based on City policy, before being hired in this position, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol-screening test. 
3. Applications accepted are subject to review to ensure minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. A final average score of 70% in the performance test portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. Candidates may take the test only once every 365 days during the administration of this examination. Names may be removed from the open competitive eligible list after six months.
7. Your rank on the employment list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of this examination are merged onto one list. 

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ON AN
OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3841 CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 01-20-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

