ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION MECHANIC SUPERVISOR

Class Code:       3873
Open Date:  10-28-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$126,783 to $133,861 and $132,274 to $139,645

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

An Electric Distribution Mechanic Supervisor assigns, reviews, and evaluates the work of a crew or crews engaged in performing skilled mechanical and electrical work in connection with the construction, maintenance and repair of overhead and underground electric power transmission, subtransmission and distribution lines, cable and equipment and street lighting systems; creates and updates records, documents, and reports with mechanical and electronic devices; or develops specifications on pole and transformer locations, conductor size, and materials to be installed or removed on proposed service extensions and improvements; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining a safe and effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities. 

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Four years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles Department of Water and Power as an Electric Distribution Mechanic. (Experience must be obtained within the last five years.)

PROCESS NOTES

1.	Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met. 
2.	A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants with valid out-of-state driver's licenses may apply for this examination; however, they cannot be appointed until a valid California driver's license is obtained. Applicants may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 


NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2016.


SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
                                        Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination for Electric Distribution Mechanic Supervisor will consist of a qualifying written test and a weighted interview.  In the qualifying written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: principles of electricity related to installation, construction, and repair of electrical transmission, subtransmission and distribution systems; methods, materials, tools and equipment used in electrical construction and maintenance; electrical test instruments; State and Department standards and regulations including General Orders 95 and 128; rigging practices; hazards and applicable safety procedures near energized power lines, cables or equipment; first aid practices and techniques; procedures for obtaining clearances and "OK To's" according to DWP Operating Order No. 1 and 5; arithmetic calculations related to electric distribution work; Civil Service Rules, DWP Working Rules, and Equal Employment Opportunity Guidelines; principles and practices of supervision including evaluations and discipline; and the ability to: interpret plans and construction specifications for electrical distribution work; supervise a crew engaged in electrical construction and maintenance; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.   
The qualifying multiple-choice written test will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, JANUARY 14, 2017 in Los Angeles. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test. 

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying written test in order to be called for the interview. The examination score will be based entirely on the interview.

Passing Score for Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.
The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's experience and background in providing the skills necessary to perform the duties of an Electric Distribution Mechanic Supervisor, including knowledge of: methods, materials, tools and equipment used in electrical construction and maintenance; hazards, and applicable safety procedures; Civil Service Rules, DWP Working Rules, and Equal Employment Opportunity; principles of practices of supervision including evaluations and discipline; and the ability to: supervise a crew engaged in electrical construction and maintenance; communicate orally and deal tactfully and effectively with others; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities. 
NOTES:
	
1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 3873 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-28-16


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

