ELECTRICAL SERVICES MANAGER

Class Code:      5265
Open Date: 09-28-18
Revised: 10-01-18
      (Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$164,764 to $204,707; $185,101 to $229,972; $196,084 to $243,627; $215,105 to $267,222; $227,070 to $282,109; and $239,744 to $297,853

NOTES:

1.  Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Electrical Services Manager plans, directs, organizes, and reviews through subordinate supervisors, the design, construction, operation, repair, and maintenance of major electrical facilities, underground and overhead electric transmission and distribution systems, hydroelectric power plants, DC converter stations, steam/thermal-electric generating plants, renewable energy power plants, including energy storage facilities and the load dispatching operations for the Department of Water and Power; plans, organizes, and directs through subordinate supervisors, the development, review, implementation and management of training and safety programs; directs activities for a group/section or a large division within the Department of Water and Power; applies sound supervisory and management principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Transmission and Distribution District Supervisor, Senior Electrical Mechanic Supervisor, Chief Electric Plant Operator, or Senior Load Dispatcher; or
2. Two years of full-time paid professional engineering experience in a class at the level of Electrical Engineer supervising field personnel in the construction, operation or maintenance of power utility or distribution systems; or
3. Three years of full-time paid experience as a Steam Plant Operating Supervisor, Steam Plant Maintenance Supervisor, or Instrument Mechanic Supervisor supervising operations and maintenance personnel at a steam plant.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California Driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training in one or more of the following areas.  Only persons possessing the following at the time of filing may be considered for appointment to fill such positions.

A current NERC/WECC certification for operations at the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power Energy Control Center.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2018.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
     Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: supervision, interpersonal skills, oral communication, written communication, project management, leadership, strategic planning, and job knowledge including knowledge of the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (DWP) electrical power systems such as, generation, transmission, and distribution systems, and the materials, equipment, tools, and techniques and procedures used in the construction, operation, and maintenance of these systems in order to provide management and oversight; departmental procedures used to control supplies, materials and equipment inventory; budgetary analysis methods sufficient to review, update and approve proposed budgets; City contract and bid procedures; structure, function and interrelationship of City boards, commissions, committees, councils, offices, and departments; computer based software, including Microsoft Office Suite; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

On the same day as the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of an Electrical Services Manager. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory essay will be disqualified. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their advisory essay responses.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Electrical Services Manager.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of DECEMBER 3, 2018 to DECEMBER 14, 2018.
	
NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Appointments to this class are subject to a one-year probationary period under the provisions of Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter. 
3. Candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those classes which provide qualifying experience for this position. A maximum of one point will be added to the score of those candidates.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin. 
5. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
7. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Section 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve problems prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 5265  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .09-28-18 REV 10-01-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to:  http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

