ELECTRICIAN
Class Code:       3863
Open Date:  10-13-17
 (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees) 
ANNUAL SALARY

$88,218 (flat-rated)
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $78,049 to $96,945.

NOTES: 

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
4. Higher salaries are paid for night work.

DUTIES

An Electrician does skilled electrical work in the installation, maintenance, and repair of wiring, conduits, and electric installations in public buildings and facilities and on adjacent grounds; and troubleshoots electrical circuits.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Completion of a recognized apprenticeship as a general electrician; or
2. Seven years of full-time paid experience performing electrical wiring work on buildings and facilities.

Completion of an electrician program at an accredited institution may be substituted for each year of experience lacking up to a maximum of two years. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license or Class B license with a medical certificate. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). For positions requiring a valid Class B driver's license, candidates will be asked to submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1808.1 prior to appointment. 
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 must submit an apprenticeship certificate. Applicants must attach a copy of the apprenticeship certificate to the online application at the time of filing. The certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the certificate. Applicants who fail to submit the apprentice certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in the examination. 
4. Applicants wishing to substitute completion of an electrician program for experience lacking must submit a certificate of electrical program completion for each program they claim as qualifying at the time of filing. The certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the certificate. Applicants who fail to submit the certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.   
5. Based on City policy, you may undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
6. For some positions, you may be required by the appointing department to possess an Environmental Protection Agency approved Technician Certificate and/or pass an annual or periodic work fitness evaluation to determine your eligibility for continued employment. 
7. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angele recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
8. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying coursework. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE: 

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from October 13, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:	Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of a written test comprised of multiple-choice questions, in which candidates may be examined for knowledge of: characteristics of electrical systems including conduits, panel boards, pull boxes, sub-panels, branch circuits, circuit breakers, transformers, motors, control and sensor devices; techniques, methods, procedures, and materials used for the installation, maintenance and repair of electrical systems; electrical terminology, and electrical theory and principles; National, State and local electrical codes; safety principles and practices, including the use of personal safety equipment and CAL/OSHA construction, electrical and General Safety Orders; regulations of the California vehicle code; proper handling of hazardous materials; and the ability to analyze and determine the causes of electrical system failures or malfunctions; identify and properly use hand tools and electronic devices safely; read and interpret instruments and gauges, electrical drawings, sketches, building plans, blueprints, schematics and wiring diagrams in order to properly test electrical systems, equipment, or devices; read and interpret safety codes or regulations; use basic arithmetic including addition, subtraction, multiplication, division and basic algebra to solve electrical formulas; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.  

The written test will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2017 in Los Angles. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test.

NOTES:	

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. The promotional list will be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of continuous classified service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 3863 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-13-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 


