ELEVATOR MECHANIC HELPER
Class Code:       3860
Open Date:  07-14-17 
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$68,883 (flat-rated)

NOTE:

The current salary is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
DUTIES

An Elevator Mechanic Helper helps journey-level elevator mechanics by doing semiskilled electrical and mechanical work in the maintenance and repair of passenger and freight elevators, escalators, and their appurtenant equipment.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. One year of full-time paid experience in the installation, maintenance, repair or modernization of elevators, escalators, or moving walks; or
2. Successful completion of 12 semester or 18 quarter units from a recognized college, university, or trade school in industrial electronics or industrial electricity. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. Industrial electricity and industrial electronics refer to the electrical and electronic components used in the control of large AC and DC motors and drives such as those used in elevator and escalator equipment, and NOT in items such as televisions, radios, or computers.
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 must list their school name and location, appropriate course titles, their respective number of semester or quarter units, and completion dates for each course claimed as qualifying in the text box which will appear in the Supplemental Questions section of the online application.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:


 Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JULY 27, 2017 

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received.  Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from July 14, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of a written test comprised of multiple-choice questions, in which candidates may be examined for knowledge of: components (mechanical and hydraulic) of elevators, escalators, and moving sidewalks sufficient to verify that everything is operating correctly; electricity sufficient to check whether a circuit, such as lighting circuit, is open or closed and if electricity is flowing through it, detecting bad fuses, and locating shorts, and identifying problems in malfunctioning electrical equipment using an ohmmeter; electric motors and their components sufficient to identify and locate the source/nature of a problem and determine what/if preventative maintenance and/or repair is needed; basic electrical, electronic, mechanical, and hydraulic principles; the use of cleaning tools to keep areas and equipment clean and free of dust, dirt, or trash; the use of hand tools to perform tasks such as removing/replacing cover plates over controls/lights, and aligning pumps and motors; applying lubricants in order to keep all moving parts well oiled; and the ability to: work safely, wearing proper work clothing and using safety inspected tools; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2017 in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study. 
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 3860 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07-14-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

