EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES (EMS) EDUCATOR
      
        Class Code:       2322
 Open Date:  11-06-15
Revised: 11-25-15
              						   		     (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 
        
$77,715 to $104,734

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES  
 
Conducts formal classroom training for Fire Department personnel in pre-hospital care emergency services subjects; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS 

1. Possession of a current license with the State of California as a Registered Nurse; with a current or former certification as a Los Angeles County Mobile Intensive Care Nurse (MICN) or 
2. A State of California Paramedic License with a current Los Angeles County Paramedic accreditation; and
3. Completion of one of the following:
a. California State Fire Marshal Instructor 1A, 1B, 1C certification; or
b. National Association of EMS Educators (NAEMSE) Instructor Course; or
c. Two years of full-time, paid experience within the last five years as the Pre-hospital Care Coordinator (PCC) of a Los Angeles County Base Station Hospital; or
d. One year experience in education instruction in the field of pre-hospital or emergency services.

NOTES: 

1. The following are desired but not required of candidates for this class:
a. American Heart Association (AHA) Basic Life Support (BLS) Provider/Instructor; or
b. AHA Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) Provider/Instructor; or
c. AHA Pediatric Advanced Life Support (PALS) Provider/Instructor; or
d. Bachelor's Degree in Nursing or Health Care Administration; or
e. Prehospital Trauma Life Support (PHTLS) Instructor.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. All applicants must list their Registered Nurse and their MICN certification or Paramedic license number and expiration date in the Certificates and Licenses section of the application.
4. Candidates who lack six months or less of the experience in Requirement #3c may file for this examination, however, they cannot be appointed until the full experience is met.
5. Applicants filing under Requirement #3a and #3b will be required to submit a copy of their certificate at the time of filing.




WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from November 6, 2015 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.
	
SELECTION PROCESS    

Examination Weight: Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidate's professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the candidate's knowledge of: principles, practices, related equipment, and techniques of pre-hospital care; classroom curriculum design and instruction; methods of preparing educational material for purposes of conducting training; training aids; and the ability to: make effective oral presentations; work cooperatively and effectively with professional and non-professional employees; organize and develop effective training programs; keep records related to training activities; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interviews, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of MID-JANUARY to EARLY FEBRUARY.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at the following: http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
5. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 2322 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-06-15 Rev 11-25-15

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

