EMS ADVANCED PROVIDER

Class Code:       2341
Open Date:  11-16-18
Revised: 12-20-18
 (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$83,645 to $122,273

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An EMS Advanced Provider provides scheduled and unscheduled non-emergent direct patient care to the ill and injured within the pre-hospital setting. The EMS Advanced Provider may act as lead worker to staff involved in the pre-hospital care delivered through the Advanced Provider Response Unit (APRU), which is the Los Angeles Fire Department's (LAFD) alternate service delivery model to render mobile integrated healthcare. The EMS Advanced Provider provides medical treatment which includes obtaining patient histories, administering and prescribing medication, conducting diagnostic tests, performing routine medical procedures and consulting with other social services and healthcare professionals. The EMS Advanced Provider may provide secondary caller interrogation for specifically designated low acuity calls in the Metropolitan Fire Communications (MFC) 911 dispatch center. 

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. One year of full-time paid experience as a Nurse Practitioner or a Physician Assistant in an emergency department or urgent care setting; and
2. Licensed as a:
a.	Registered Nurse and certified as a Nurse Practitioner by the California Board of Registered Nursing with documentation of education and training as a Nurse Practitioner in family practice or emergency medicine, and possess a current license, Furnishing Number, and a Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) registration number; or
b. Physician Assistant with documentation of education and training as a Physician Assistant in family practice or emergency medicine, and possess a current license and a Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) registration number; and 
3. 	Certified as a:
a.	Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) or an Emergency Nurse Practitioner (ENP) by a national center such as the American Nurse Credentialing Center (ANCC) or the American Academy of Nurse Practitioners (AANP); or
b.	Physician Assistant from the National Commission on Certification of Physician Assistants (NCCPA); and
4. 	Certified as a Basic Life Support (BLS) Provider, an Advance Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) Provider, and a Pediatric Advance Life Support (PALS) Provider through the American Heart Association. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. Previous experience in a pre-hospital setting (as an EMT or paramedic) or certification as a Mobile Intensive Care Nurse (MICN) by the Department of Health Services, County of Los Angeles, is highly desired. 
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
3. Applicants must submit a copy of the required certificates listed under the Requirements Section listed above. Applicants must attach a copy of the required certificates to the online application at the time of filing. The requested copies must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the document(s) is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants will not be considered further in this examination.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
1. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed below:

From 8:00 a.m. Friday, November 16, 2018 to 11:59 p.m., Thursday, January 3, 2019
From 8:00 a.m. Friday, May 31, 2019 to 11:59 p.m., Thursday, June 13, 2019

The examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. Filing periods may change without prior notice or additional dates may be added, as needed, at a later date. For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen on the dates noted in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the qualifying multiple-choice test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates. 

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of training and experience, wherein candidates will be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background and personal qualifications and abilities.  Emphasis will be placed on the following: Composure; Customer Service; Follow Written Directions; Interpersonal Skills; Judgement and Decision Making; Written Communication; Safety Focus including knowledge of: Body Substance Isolation (BSI) and Scene safety; and Job Knowledge including knowledge of: medical treatment processes and procedures including obtaining a patient's vitals; medical equipment and tools used and their proper application such as non-invasive blood pressure monitoring system, pulse oximeter, point-of-care blood testing, and 12-lead EKG; emergency diagnostic and treatment procedures; medication used to provide medical care and treatment and their proper application such antibiotics, anti-hypertensive, and pain management; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional job analyses information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under EMS Advanced Provider.

The Training and Experience Questionnaire will be administered on-line. Candidates invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to complete the on-line Training and Experience Questionnaire. Candidates that do not complete the on-line Training and Experience Questionnaire as required will not be considered further in this examination. It is anticipated that the on-line Training and Experience Questionnaire will be administered during the period of JANUARY 28, 2019 and FEBRUARY 4, 2019.

Training and Experience Questionnaires for all candidates who meet the requirements, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the candidate's Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the expert review panel. 

APPOINTMENT IS SUBJECT TO

If you receive and accept a conditional job offer, appointment is subject to:
* Passing a thorough and comprehensive background investigation, AND
* Completion of a thorough medical examination, including a psychological inventory which includes a written test and may include a clinical interview.
* Based on City Policy, before being hired, candidates may be required to undergo a DRUG and ALCOHOL screening test.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
6. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum requirements are met.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position. All City employees are required to be Disaster Service Workers.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. 


Class Code 2341 CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-16-18 REV 12-06-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

