ENGINEERING GEOLOGIST
Class Code:       7255
Open Date:  02-23-18
     (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$94,857 to $138,643; $103,021 to $150,628; $111,373 to $162,864
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $103,335 to $128,391; $106,341 to $132,128; $108,784 to $135,156; $125,133 to $155,451.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

An Engineering Geologist conducts or supervises the preparation of engineering geological studies and reports; reviews for acceptability professional reports on engineering geological studies relating to earth movement, landslides, the design and construction of tracts, dams, reservoirs, tank sites, buildings, streets and highways, tunnels, electric power generating plants, transmission towers, distributing stations and other structures; classifies rock and soil samples; investigates and mitigates soil and groundwater contamination; investigates water-bearing strata, soil gases, geologic hazards including methane, fuel supply sources and technical aspects of legal questions; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Certification as an Engineering Geologist with the California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists is required at the time of filing.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, each applicant is required to submit the Engineering Geologist Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Engineering Geologist Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Registration as an Engineering Geologist with the State of California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists is required at time of filing.  Applicants must list their Engineering Geologist registration number and expiration date in the Supplemental Questions section of the application.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license.  Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MARCH 8, 2018.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from February 23, 2018 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

EXPERT REVIEW COMMITTEE

Should a large number of qualified applicants file for this examination, an expert review committee may be assembled to evaluate each applicant's qualifications for the position of Engineering Geologist.  In this evaluation, the expert review committee will assess each applicant's training and experience based upon the information in the applicant's City employment application and the Qualifications Questionnaire.  Those applicants considered by the expert review committee as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of an Engineering Geologist, based solely on the information presented to the committee, will be invited to participate in the selection process..

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 and expert review as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:                  

Examination Weight:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
	                    Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   100%
 
The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of experience and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's knowledge of: rock types; general geology of Southern California; groundwater hazards; different drilling methods; drilling and sampling equipment; soil mechanics; standard tests of soil properties; sources of data and information from other governmental agencies; Los Angeles Building Code requirements with emphasis on grading; carbon 14 (age-dating); Alquist-Priolo Earthquake Fault Zone Act; site assessment and remediation of hazardous materials; methane and other gas hazards; geomorphology and pedology; fundamental principles and practices of supervision; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures including Equal Employment Opportunity;  and the ability to classify and identify rocks, faults, minerals and soils; identify fossils, bedding planes, foliation, lineation, faults, joints, shear zones, lithology, and mineral make-up; perform field mapping; investigate landslides and recommend corrective methods; review and evaluate reports prepared by consulting firms; act as consultant to the City on geological problems; layout and initiate a geologic subsurface investigation program for engineering projects; investigate groundwater conditions; interpret aerial photographs and topographic maps; use Brunton compass, seismograph, meters, slope indicator equipment, stereoscopes, and microscopes; describe geologic and structural stratigraphy; schedule work; evaluate the stability and excavatability of earth materials; evaluate slopes for hazards due to erosion and landslides; assess and mitigate soil gas, soil, and groundwater contamination; interface with local, State, and Federal regulators; prepare geological and technical reports and correspondence using proper grammar, spelling, and composition; prepare a descriptive log of borings and excavations; communicate both orally and in writing, in an effective, clear, persuasive, and concise manner; deal tactfully and effectively with public officials, professional engineers and geologists, City employees, and the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of APRIL 30, 2018 to MAY 11, 2018.

Prior to the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of an Engineering Geologist. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates who fail to complete the Advisory Essay as instructed may be disqualified.

The Advisory Essay will be administered online. Candidates invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps needed to complete the online Advisory Essay. Candidates will be required to complete the online advisory essay on SATURDAY, APRIL 14, 2018. Additional instructions will be sent via e-mail. 

NOTES:	 

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidate's City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum requirements are met.
8. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7255 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 02-23-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

