ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEER 

Class Code:       7872
Open Date:  08-26-16
REVISED: 09-01-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$89,637 to $127,555

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Environmental Engineer performs responsible professional engineering work and supervises employees involved in water supply and water quality control activities, and in the planning, design, construction, maintenance, operation and implementation of technologies related to solid waste, industrial waste, water, stormwater, recycled water, and wastewater conveyance, storage and treatment facilities.  Prepares, evaluates, and administers Request for Qualifications, Requests for Proposals, and Request for Bids for a variety of environmental engineering projects; may act as project manager over one or more projects; directs various environmental engineering studies, tests and research activities; evaluates performance of existing environmental engineering facilities and makes recommendations for improvement; directs a variety of solid resources programs including solid waste recycling, clean fuel, zero waste and renewable energy; reviews regulatory ordinances and provides summaries of impacts and recommendations for regulatory compliance; occasionally makes presentations to Board members, elected officials, and the public; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force and in fulfilling equal employment responsibilities; and does related work.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION 

Two years of full-time paid professional environmental engineering experience in a position at least at the level of Environmental Engineering Associate II. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Environmental Engineer Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Environmental Engineer Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed. 
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Registration as a Professional Engineer with the California State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers is required prior to appointment.
4. To be at the level of an Environmental Engineering Associate II, an Engineer-in-Training (EIT) certificate is required.  Therefore, qualifying experience is gained in positions after obtaining an EIT certificate. Applicants must indicate the appropriate paygrade for each City engineering position listed on their application.
5. Appointment to some Environmental Engineer positions may require the possession of a State of California Grade 4 or 5 Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator Certificate. Eligibles who lack a Grade 4 or 5 Certificate may be appointed to these positions, but will be required to qualify for and obtain the Grade 4 or 5 Certificate within three years under the operator-in-training requirements of the State Water Resources Control Board.
6. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2016.

SELECTION PROCESS

	After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
                                     Interview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%
                                      
The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of experience and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's knowledge of: environmental engineering principles and practices; environmental and public health principles applicable to wastewater collection, storm water pollution control, liquid and solid waste collection, global warming, wastewater treatment, disposal, and recycling, household hazardous waste, bio-solids and green infrastructure; wastewater flow hydraulics, pumping plants, cross-connections, back flow and siphons; chemistry, bacteriology, water and environmental biology, botany, theoretical epidemiology, odors, gas fumes, and dust as related to water reclamation and waste treatment; principles of water reclamation and wastewater treatment processes; economic and practical aspects of environmental engineering problems involved in wastewater collection systems, treatment and disposal, water supply and solid waste management; Federal, State, and local sanitation, environmental building and planning regulations, codes and laws applicable to wastewater processing, storm water, and water collections; fundamental supervisory principles and practices, including assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending, and evaluating the work of subordinate personnel; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO); and the ability to direct the design and construction of water reclamation, wastewater treatment and collection projects; direct engineering studies and investigations on a variety of non-medical public health, wastewater treatment, waste management and water reclamation; direct a group of employees in water reclamation and wastewater treatment processes; prepare and supervise the completion of maps, graphs, charts, diagrams, plans and sketches; apply general engineering principles to specific problems and make efficient use of the sources of engineering information; interpret and relate engineering data to problems concerning efficiency, feasibility, personnel, and economic requirements; communicate both orally and in writing, in an effective, clear, and concise manner; deal tactfully and effectively with employees, representatives of other agencies, community stakeholders, and the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be required to prepare some written material on a topic related to the duties and responsibilities of an Environmental Engineer. This essay material will not be scored separately, but will be presented to the interview panel for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. In addition, as part of the evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will also consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview panel.

Candidates must complete the advisory essay. Those who do not complete the advisory essay will not be invited to the interview and will be considered to have failed the entire examination. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the advisory essay session, which will be held in a single half day session on SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2016, in Los Angeles.

Candidates will also be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of NOVEMBER 28, 2016 to DECEMBER 2, 2016.

NOTES:

1. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 7872 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08-26-16 REV 09-01-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

