



EXAMINER OF QUESTIONED DOCUMENTS

                                                                                                     Class Code:       3229
                                                                                                     Open Date:  12-04-15
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$45,956 to $67,191 and $81,160 to $118,661

DUTIES

An Examiner of Questioned Documents determines the authenticity of documents, including any alterations, additions, or deletions; identifies or eliminates persons as the source of handwriting; obtains handwriting exemplars from suspected writers; detects multiple writing instruments; and presents expert testimony in court.

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Paygrade I is for trainees.  Trainees will receive intensive on-the-job and formal training as an Examiner of Questioned Documents.  An Examiner of Questioned Documents appointed to paygrade I must qualify for appointment to paygrade II within three years of employment by successful completion of the training program.

REQUIREMENT

Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university.

NOTES:  

1. Experience in questioned document work is desired but not required.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

This examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received.  For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen the following workday.  This examination will remain open until sufficient applications are received and may close without prior notice.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from December 4, 2015 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS


Examination Weights:  Qualifying Multiple-Choice Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pass/Fail
                                        Oral Presentation and Defense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying written test and an oral presentation and defense. In the qualifying written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, emphasis will be placed on the candidate's ability to: read, write, and comprehend technical information and reports; distinguish minute differences or detect similarities; pay attention to detail; follow instructions; and knowledge of: proper English usage; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

All candidates who pass the multiple-choice test must participate in the Oral Presentation and Defense.  In this exercise, candidates will be required to review written materials, prepare an oral presentation based on these materials, make the presentation to a panel, and answer questions from the panel.  In this exercise, emphasis will be placed on the candidate's ability to: communicate clearly and effectively; organize and prioritize time; use oral presentation skills; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, JANUARY 30, 2016, in Los Angeles. Candidates who pass the multiple-choice test will be e-mailed notification of the time and place of their Oral Presentation and Defense.

Passing Score for Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at the following: http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. You may take this examination once a year (365 calendar days).  Your name may be removed from the eligible list after six months.
5. This examination is based on a content validation study.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3229 CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12-04-15


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

