FINANCIAL MANAGER
Class Code:       1557
Open Date:  07-01-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)


ANNUAL SALARY

$87,361 to $127,702 and $108,763 to $159,022

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. The salary range covers multiple pay grades within the class. 
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions. 

DUTIES

A Financial Manager manages, or assists in managing, financial administration and planning or accounting activities of the City Departments having control over their own funds; analyzes and makes recommendations on significant financial matters; participates in the development of business management reporting, accounting, or cash flow projection systems; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective workforce; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Three years of full-time paid experience at the level of Financial Analyst with the City of Los Angeles working with an enterprise accrual accounting system; or
2. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a major in finance, accounting, economics, mathematics, or business administration and five years of full-time paid professional experience in a public accounting firm; or governmental agencies using enterprise accrual accounting systems; or publicly traded private sector corporations; or an investment bank, commercial bank, financial advisor, or investment advisor listed in the Bond Buyers Municipal Marketplace Directory; or privately held companies with revenues and/or equity size comparable to that of a Fortune 500 company; and supervising for at least two years either:
a. Accounting professionals performing the full range of accounting activities including financial reporting, general accounting, cost accounting, accounts payable, accounts receivable, payroll, billing, and inventory on an accrual basis in conformance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles issued by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board and/or the Financial Accounting Standards Board; or
b. Professional or support personnel performing the full range of financial management activities including portfolio management, cash management, issuance of short- and long-term debt, cash forecasting, financial analysis of business, commercial, or governmental development proposals to determine their financial viability and rates of return, and financial reporting.

A CPA or CFA, CTP certificate, or a Master's degree in finance, accounting, economics, business administration or public administration with an emphasis in economics or public finance may be substituted for no more than one year of the required general experience. However, it may not substituted for the supervisory experience. 




NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for the examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met. 
2. In addition to answering the regular City application supplemental questions, each applicant is required to complete the Financial Manager Training and Experience Questionnaire at the time of filing.  The Financial Manager Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Question section of the City application.  Applicants who fail to complete the Training and Experience Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
3. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that required possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%08-21-08.pdf.
5. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
6. Some positions may require a Certified Treasury Professional (CTP) credential awarded by the Association for Financial Professionals.

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010(b) and Civil Service Commission Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training in one or more of the following areas. Only persons possessing the following experience may be considered for appointment to fill such positions.

1. Developing, implementing, and managing a system of internal controls to safeguard and monitor the organization's assets; or
2. Managing investment portfolios of restricted cash balances and overseeing short-term cash forecasting activities; or
3. Managing activities related to conducting financial analyses including determining rate of return and performance analysis.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted online. When you are viewing the online job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. Online job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be completed at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Training and Experience Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, JULY 14, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will have their Training and Experience Questionnaire evaluated in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from July 1, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 




SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight: Training and Experience Questionnaire. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying
	     Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire and an interview. In the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire, the following competencies may be evaluated: Judgment and Decision Making, Supervision and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of:  techniques of financial and economic feasibility analysis, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), including pronouncements from Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/JobAnalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Financial Manager.

The qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaires and City employment applications of candidates will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation.  The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications as described on the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplement information will not be submitted to the expert review panel. 

PASSING SCORE FOR QUALIFYING TEST

The passing score for the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the close of the filing period.  Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and existing anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years.  Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates who pass the qualifying test will be invited to participate in the interview.

In the interview, emphasis will be placed on an evaluation of the nature and adequacy of the candidate's experience and training as it relates to the following competencies: Judgment and Decision Making, Attention to Detail, Supervision, Fiscal Management, Shares Knowledge and Information, Program Responsibility, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: the principles and practices of financial management, planning, and accounting for government and/or enterprises; techniques of financial and economic feasibility analysis; principles and practices of investment analysis, including discounted cash flow techniques; Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), including pronouncements from Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB); and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/JobAnalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Financial Manager.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of SEPTEMBER 5, 2016 to SEPTEMBER 16, 2016.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the City Charter.
3. Promotional candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those classes, which provide qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of the candidates.
4. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credit, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit as indicated above, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
5. Successful candidates may be required to complete a medical examination.
6. A final average score of 70% is required in the interview portion of the examination to be placed on the eligible list.
7. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
8. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
9. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. 
Class Code 1557 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07-01-16


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
		

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


