FINGERPRINT IDENTIFICATION EXPERT	  
                                                                                                    Class Code:       1157
																										         Open Date: 05-29-15
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$50,153 to $62,305; $52,993 to $65,855; and $55,874 to $69,426

NOTE:


1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list normally are appointed to vacancies in the lowest pay grade positions.  
3. Higher salaries are paid for night work.

DUTIES

A Fingerprint Identification Expert uses fingerprint identification systems in classifying fingerprints; compares and identifies fingerprint documents; testifies regarding fingerprint results; processes booking record transactions in fingerprint identification system; conducts fingerprint searches for identification purposes; or may supervise such work.

Fingerprint Identification Experts may be required to work on the day, evening, or morning shifts.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Completion of an accredited course in fingerprint identification; or 
2. Six months of full-time paid experience in technical fingerprint identification work in a fingerprint bureau in a law enforcement agency.

NOTES:

1. A valid California's driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
2. The title, school attended, and date completed of the required course must be listed in the Education Section of the on-line application.
3. Please note that qualifying education must be from a school accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency.  A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
4. Applicants completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying course.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations. 

NOTE:
Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen the following workday.  This examination will remain open until sufficient applications are received and may close without prior notice.  The written test will be given on July 18, 2015, in Los Angeles, for candidates who file their application by June 11, 2015. Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the written test, which will be held in Los Angeles.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Written test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination score will be based entirely on a multiple-choice written test which may include questions designed to measure a candidate's knowledge of: numerical filing systems; fingerprint patterns; ability to analyze completeness and quality of fingerprints to determine whether they are useful for purposes of comparison and identification; interpersonal skills; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

REQUIRED MATERIALS

Candidates should bring to the written test a straight edge ruler, a magnifying glass, and a ridge counter of the type used for classifying fingerprints.

NOTES:		

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and House Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodation to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. Verified volunteer experience equivalent to that required by this bulletin is acceptable.  Verification must be provided by the applicant.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You may take this examination once a year (365 calendar days).  Your name may be removed from the eligible list after six months.

NOTICE:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1157CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .05-29-15

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

