FIREFIGHTER
Class Code:       2112
Open Date:  01-19-18
 (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$65,521; $69,008 to $90,702; $76,859 to $95,672 

DUTIES

As members of the Los Angeles Fire Department, a Firefighter's duties include engaging directly in firefighting, emergency medical services requiring assignment to a rescue ambulance, mitigation of hazardous materials emergencies, fire prevention and rescue, and inspections of buildings and properties to ensure compliance with the fire codes.  All Firefighters are required to become Emergency Medical Technicians (EMT) and may be required to become Paramedics.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1.	At least 18 years of age at the time of application, and
2.	Graduation from a U.S. high school or equivalent, G.E.D. or equivalent from a U.S. institution, or a California High School Proficiency Examination (CHSPE) certificate is required, and
3.	Achievement of a passing score on the FIREFIGHTER CANDIDATE ASSESSMENT (FCA) in order to be considered in the next phase of the selection process. Information on how to register to take the FCA is available at https://lacityfirefighter.psiexams.com and at joinLAFD.org.

PROCESS NOTES

1. FIREFIGHTER CANDIDATE ASSESSMENT (FCA):  To meet the FCA requirement, you must register and take the FCA during the testing period. FCA registration will start on Monday, March 5, 2018, and will be available until Friday, June 29, 2018. Candidates must also submit a City application during the application filing period. Candidates may submit the application prior to registering for the FCA.
2. A passing score on the FCA taken from February 2016 through January 2017 satisfies the FCA requirement. If you previously achieved a passing score on the FCA, you must submit a City application, but you do NOT need to retake the FCA.
3. All information on the FCA, including cost, tutorial assistance, the registration process, and low-income voucher qualification is available at https://lacityfirefighter.psiexams.com and at joinLAFD.org.   
4. All entry-level positions are temporary training positions as defined in Civil Service Commission Rule 5.30. Upon completion of this training period, an appointment to a regular position of Firefighter can be made in which a one year probationary period begins.
5. CANDIDATE PHYSICAL ABILITY TEST (CPAT): Candidates must provide proof of a current passing score on the CPAT during the Field Investigation. Proof must also be provided at the time of certification for hiring consideration. A CPAT score is valid for one year. Information regarding the CPAT can be found at: http://per.lacity.org/exams/Firefighter2012CPATInformation.pdf. 
6. LICENSE: A valid California Driver's License is required at the time of appointment.  Once hired, Firefighters are required to obtain and maintain a California Class "B" or Firefighter's driver's license, in accordance with Fire Department Procedures, as a condition of employment.
7. Candidates must obtain a valid EMT certificate prior to appointment.

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification may be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training. Only persons possessing one or more of the following at the time of filing may be considered for appointment to fill such positions.  

1. Ability to speak and/or write a language other than English. 
2. Possession of a valid National Registered Paramedic (NREMT-P) certification issued by the National Registry of Emergency Medical Technicians.
3. Possession of a valid State of California Paramedic License issued by the Emergency Medical Services Authority.

If you possess one or more of these special skills and/or training, indicate them in the appropriate box(es) on the application.  

WHERE TO APPLY

City job applications WILL ONLY BE ACCEPTED ON-LINE. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity under "Jobs Open to All." City computers are available at the Personnel Department, local libraries, and worksource centers. Applicants who have problems with the on-line application or need assistance applying on-line, may visit the Personnel Department Building, 700 E. Temple Street, Room 150, Los Angeles, CA 90012, or call the Public Safety Division at (213) 473-9060.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications will be accepted on-line only from MONDAY, MARCH 5, 2018 THROUGH FRIDAY, JUNE 29, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, stratified random sampling of qualified applicants who passed the FCA will be invited to participate in the interview. Stratified random sampling may occur periodically and as needed, based on the City's hiring needs. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file and will automatically be included for consideration during the stratified random sampling process under this job bulletin.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the specific date, time, and location of the interview. Interviews are anticipated to begin after the end of the application filing period.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination process consists of the following steps. 

1. The INTERVIEW is a behavior-based review of a candidate's personal history. It is designed to evaluate initiative in learning, practical orientation, role adaptability, service orientation, oral communication skills, job motivation, teamwork, and respect for diversity. The minimum passing score is 70. This score will determine a candidate's rank on the eligible list, which is valid for one year from the date of the interview. This is an extremely competitive examination and a sufficient number of candidates with the highest scores will continue in the selection process.
2. Based on a candidate's ranking on the eligible list and the hiring needs of the Fire Department, candidates with the highest scores will be selected for a BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION. The background investigation will consist of a background appointment and field investigation. The background investigation is conducted to evaluate: interpersonal skills, sensitivity, and respect for others; decision-making and judgment; maturity and discipline; honesty, integrity, and personal ethics; setting and achieving goals; and a records check.
3. A MEDICAL EXAMINATION is conducted by a City physician to evaluate the candidate's medical fitness (vision, hearing, cardiovascular, respiratory, etc.) to perform the full range of Firefighter duties, with no conditions which would affect the candidate's ability to safely perform those duties.
4. A PSYCHOLOGICAL EVALUATION (including written tests, and possibly an interview by a City Psychologist) is conducted to evaluate the candidate's psychological fitness to safely perform the full range of Firefighter duties.

ADDITIONAL JOB INFORMATION

Candidate Advancement Program (CAP): Candidates selected in the stratified random sampling and who move forward in the selection process after the interview will be required to complete the CAP Fitness Assessment. The CAP Fitness Assessment results are advisory. Candidates will also be required to maintain the CAP Fitness Assessment Logbook throughout the field investigation.  The CAP Fitness Assessment Logbook must be completed by the conclusion of the field investigation. 
 
After the field investigation is conducted, a REVIEW OF QUALIFICATIONS will be completed by representatives from the Fire Department, which may include a department interview. This review may include the evaluation of the candidate's training, experience, personal qualifications, and findings of the background investigation as they prepared the candidate for the job of Firefighter. Based on hiring needs, those candidates with the strongest qualifications will receive a conditional job offer from the Fire Department and be scheduled for the medical and psychological evaluation. This is an extremely competitive examination and there are relatively few positions to be filled. Based on this, not all candidates reviewed will be selected for further processing.

PHYSICAL: Firefighting and medical rescue work is physically demanding.  Candidates must be in excellent health and have no conditions which would restrict their ability to safely perform fire suppression and rescue work.  Weight (body fat content) must be proportionate to height. 

VISION: Uncorrected distance visual acuity of at least 20/100 in the poorer eye and 20/40 in the better eye, correctable to at least 20/40 in one eye and 20/20 in the other eye is required.  Regarding refractive surgery, most persons who have had these procedures will be passed.  However, some may be deferred for several months or disqualified based on an individualized assessment of the surgical outcome.  Regarding color vision, candidates must be able to accurately and quickly name colors and be free of other visual impairments that would restrict their ability to perform Firefighter duties.

TOBACCO: Firefighters are required to refrain from all use of tobacco throughout their employment with the Los Angeles Fire Department.

DRUG & ALCOHOL SCREENING: A drug and alcohol screening test may be required at any time prior to appointment because Firefighter has been designated as a safety sensitive class.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application on-line. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at: http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the examination will not be subject to candidate inspection.
3. Names will be removed from the eligible list after one year unless the eligibility of candidates on the list is extended.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employer benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 2112 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .01-19-18 

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


