FIRE SPRINKLER INSPECTOR

                                                                                                      Class Code:      4240
                                                                                                      Open Date: 06-23-17
REVISED: 07-06-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$80,283 to $97,092

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Fire Sprinkler Inspector inspects fire sprinkler and standpipe installations for conformance to the provisions of pertinent laws, construction specifications, and adopted National Fire Protection Association Standards; and assists in training other inspection employees as required.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1.	Four years of full-time paid experience as a journey-level fire sprinkler fitter installing fire sprinklers and standpipe systems in commercial facilities using the National Fire Protection Association standards; or
2.	Four years of full-time paid experience as a fire sprinkler inspector having jurisdictional authority by a City, County or State agency on commercial facility fire sprinkler and standpipe installations using the National Fire Protection Association standards.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Candidates who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Journey-level experience is defined as completion of a recognized apprenticeship or sufficient experience in the trade deemed equivalent to apprenticeship completion.
4. If qualifying under Requirement #2, experience must have been gained while employed as an Inspector by a City, County or State agency.  If the jurisdictional authority was gained through a contract with a City, County or State agency, verification of this authority is required prior to appointment.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. Online job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 
NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter. 


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JULY 13, 2017. 

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from June 23, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Judgment and Decision Making, Self-Management, Safety Focus, Objectivity, Fact Finding, Interpersonal Skills, Customer Service, and Job Knowledge including knowledge of: applicable fire protection standards and provisions as found in the National Fire Protection Association Code (NFPA) including NFPA 13, 13d, 13r, 14, 20, 22, and 24; fire protection principles including hydraulic calculations, wall wetting, occupancy hazard classifications, and water curtain sprinklers; materials used in the installation of fire sprinkler systems; fire protection systems and design as used in residential, commercial and industrial structures; fire protection equipment used in high rise installations; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Fire Sprinkler Inspector. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of AUGUST 21, 2017 to SEPTEMBER 1, 2017. 

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin. 
4. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates. 
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidate's City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.


Class Code 4240..............................................................................................................................................06-16-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

Class Code 4240 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06-23-17 REV 07-06-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

