FLEET SERVICES MANAGER
Class Code:       9103
Open Date:  04-21-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$100,203 to $124,507; $112,062 to $139,227; and $143,048 to $177,730

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.


DUTIES

A Fleet Services Manager plans, manages, and directs through subordinate supervisors the staffing, training, safety, dispatching, operating, repair, service, inspection, preventive maintenance, regulatory compliance, procurement of fleet vehicles equipment, parts, materials and supplies, fuel management, and related functions that result in the delivery of high products and services for a large fleet of transportation and construction equipment; applies sound management principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective workforce; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Three years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as an Automotive Supervisor, Equipment Repair Supervisor, Truck and Equipment Dispatcher, Construction Equipment Service Supervisor, or Auto Body Repair Supervisor; or
2. Four years of full-time paid experience in a position at the level of Automotive Supervisor which supervises employees engaged in the repair, maintenance, servicing, dispatching, procurement or the operation of a large fleet of transportation or construction equipment; or in a position supervising the procurement or management of fleet related fuel, materials and/or services directly supporting the operation of a large fleet of transportation and construction equipment.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Applicants filing under REQUIREMENT #2 who wish to use their City experience must submit a City of Los Angeles "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form, which must also indicate the percentage of time performing the work that is claimed as qualifying experience. The VWE form can be obtained on-line at http://per.lacity.org/exams/VWE-Sup.pdf.  Applicants may attach the completed form to their online application at the time of filing or will have seven (7) calendar days from the online submission date to email a copy of their completed VWE form, including the required signatures, to per.appdocs@lacity.org.  The subject line of your email must include the exam title, your name and indicate it is a VWE. In the body of your email, you must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number and contact phone number. Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed. 
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).  

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.   

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 4, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting the minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:   Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying 
		         Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire and an interview. In the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire candidates may be examined for knowledge of: organization and functions of a fleet services division; methods and problems involved in dispatching trucks and functions and specifications of equipment; preventative maintenance and non-repair servicing practices and methods; purchasing procedures, storekeeping methods, and budget preparation; procurement of fleet vehicle materials and supplies; fuel management; principles and practices of public personnel administration, laws and regulations relating to Equal Employment Opportunity responsibilities and Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) provisions; the ability to: analyze studies and problems and develop appropriate changes or improvements; prepare clear and comprehensive reports; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

The qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications as described on the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire.  Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the expert review panel.

Passing Score for Qualifying Test

The passing score for the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying test is administered.  Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the qualifying test. The qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, JUNE 24, 2017, in Los Angeles. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their responses to the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire in order to be invited to the interview.

The examination score will be based on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and professional development as they have provided knowledge of: organization and functions of a fleet services division; methods and problems involved in dispatching trucks and functions and specifications of equipment; equipment used in the assembly, adjustment, servicing and operation repair of a wide variety of equipment; operating requirements of standards and special transportation, construction and road maintenance equipment; computerized systems associated with maintenance and repairs; procurement of fleet vehicle materials and supplies; principles and practices of public personnel administration, laws and regulations relating to Equal Employment Opportunity responsibilities and MOU provisions; occupational hazards; safety precautions and devices; the ability to: coordinate the work of a number of organizational units; coordinate the requests of a diverse group of internal customers; investigate and report upon accidents; deal tactfully and effectively with others; coordinate and communicate with outside parties; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
7. Candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those classes which provided qualifying experience for this position. A maximum of one point will be added to the score of the candidate.


THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 9103 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .04-21-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

