FORENSIC PRINT SPECIALIST

Class Code:  2200
Open Date:   06-22-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$58,986 to $86,255; $65,020 to $95,067; $76,296 to $111,541; and $81,077 to $118,557
Additional compensation may be available for certain assigned work hours.

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

Appointments are normally made to the lowest pay grade. The lowest pay grade is for trainees. A Forensic Print Specialist appointed to this pay grade will receive intensive on-the-job and formal training. A Forensic Print Specialist appointed to this pay grade must qualify for appointment to the next higher pay grade within 24 months of employment by successful completion of the training program.

DUTIES

A Forensic Print Specialist obtains latent prints at crime scenes; fingerprints dead bodies and processes fingers severed from dead bodies for fingerprint identification; uses various chemicals to process latent prints, including laser application; compares single, partial, and distorted finger and palm latent prints with exemplar prints; takes plaster cast impressions; and appears in court as an expert witness in latent print matters. Prepares and enters latent fingerprints into the Department's Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS).

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university; or
2. Completion of 60 semester units or 90 quarter units in an accredited college or university; and
3. Two years of full-time paid experience working in a law enforcement agency.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience is met.
2. A valid California driver's license and good driving record is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Fingerprint Identification Expert or in an equivalent position with another law enforcement agency (classifying fingerprints, searching fingerprint files for identification purposes, and performing related work) may be substituted for the required units in Requirement #2 on a year for year basis (i.e., 30 semester/45 quarter units = 1 year of college education).
4. Applicants must list their school name and location, type of degree earned, total number of semester or quarter units and completion dates as the on-line instructions specify.
5. The on-line City application includes a Forensic Print Specialist Job Preview that all applicants must complete at the time of filing. Applicants who fail to complete the City application and Forensic Print Specialist Job Preview within the time required will not be considered applicants in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
6. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure they have enough time to resolve any technical issues they may encounter.
APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and a completed Forensic Print Specialist Job Preview must be received by THURSDAY, JULY 5, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.20, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from June 22 2018, in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Multiple-Choice Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying
Forensic Print Specialist Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

Part I: Candidates must pass a QUALIFYING WRITTEN TEST consisting of multiple choice questions which may evaluate the following competencies: analytical ability, attention to detail, following written directions and other necessary knowledge and abilities.

Passing Score for Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by the Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

Part II: Candidates will be required to complete a FORENSIC PRINT SPECIALIST TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE QUESTIONNAIRE.

The Training and Experience Questionnaire may evaluate the following competencies: analytical ability, self-management, credibility, written communication and other necessary knowledge, skills and abilities.

Candidates must pass the qualifying written test to have their essay-based Training and Experience Questionnaire evaluated. Training and Experience Questionnaires of these candidates will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the candidate's Training and Experience Questionnaire.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the Qualifying Written Test and completion of the Forensic Print Specialist Training and Experience Questionnaire, both of which will be held in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, AUGUST 18, 2018, in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 days calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lactiy.org/exams/verity_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
4. A final average score of 70% in the Training and Experience Questionnaire portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefits coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 2200 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .06-22-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

