GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER

Class Code:       7239
Open Date:  09-07-18
Revised:  09-20-18              
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$94,857 to $138,643; $103,021 to $150,628; and $111,373 to $162,864

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed only to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Geotechnical Engineer directs and assists a geotechnical engineering unit; reviews comprehensive and complex geotechnical reports submitted by private consultants; prepares comprehensive and complex geotechnical reports; may coordinate the review of geotechnical and geological reports with Engineering Geologists; performs geotechnical investigations; advises management and other public officials on problem projects; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS 

1.	A valid license as a Civil Engineer issued by the California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists; and
2.	Four years of full-time paid professional engineering experience working under the direct supervision of a Geotechnical Engineer.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Geotechnical Engineer Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Geotechnical Engineer Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met. 
3. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their records within the past 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
4. Applicants must list their Civil Engineering License number and expiration date in the Supplemental Questions Section of the on-line application at the time of filing.  Applicants who fail to provide this information on their application will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.   
5. Authority to use the title "Geotechnical Engineer" approved by the California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists is required at the time of appointment.  
6. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional engineering experience" applies to positions that require possession of a Civil Engineering license in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a Civil Engineering license.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualification Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs, which may be based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.




QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW:

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, candidate's qualifications for the position of Geotechnical Engineer may be evaluated based on the candidates responses to the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Geotechnical Engineer, based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process. 

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:   Essay. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
                                       Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and professional development as they provide the knowledge of: soils classification, soils testing, soil mechanics, physical properties of soils and their behavior; theory and applications of soil mechanics; physical properties of soils and their behavior under varying conditions; various analyses needed for the design of excavations, buttresses, shoring and slope stability, and geotechnical field explorations; means of conducting geotechnical field explorations; problems of landslides, expansive earth material, and their mitigation measures; dynamic behavior of earth material during earthquakes, including liquefaction; groundwater behavior; shoring methods, slope stability, shallow and deep foundations; geotechnical construction monitoring and construction techniques; Equal Employment Opportunity policy; supervisory principles and techniques including planning, assigning, delegating, controlling, training, and evaluating the work of subordinates; counseling, disciplining and motivating subordinates; and the ability to: apply the principles of soils mechanics; interpret geological and engineering data; interpret topographic and geological maps, aerial photos, grading plans, and building plans; read and interpret comprehensive material such as technical reports, legislations, rules regulations, and Building Codes; read and interpret designs and plans; deal tactfully and effectively with other City employees, private consultants, and the public; communicate orally and in writing in a clear, concise and effective manner; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities. 

The Qualifications Questionnaire will not be separately scored, but will be considered by the interview board in evaluating each candidate's qualifications. Candidates may expect the panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board. 

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interviews which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of NOVEMBER 5, 2018 TO NOVEMBER 16, 2018.

Prior to the interview, applicants will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Geotechnical Engineer. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Please note that applicants must complete the advisory essay and meet minimum qualifications as stated on this bulletin in order to be considered further in the examination process.

The advisory essay will be administered on-line. Applicants invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps needed to complete the on-line advisory essay. Applicants will be required to complete the on-line advisory essay between MONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2018 and MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2018. Additional instructions will be sent via e-mail. Applicants who fail to complete the advisory essay as instructed may be disqualified.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applications who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7239 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09-07-18  REV 09-20-18 

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

