HARBOR PLANNING AND ECONOMIC ANALYST

																										Class Code:  9224
																										Open Date:  11-18-16
REVISED: 11-29-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 								

$70,908 to $103,648; and $78,571 to $114,903

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Harbor Planning and Economic Analyst performs planning, administrative, and technical work in connection with maintaining the California Coastal Commission certified Port Master Plan and the City's Port Plan; prepares specific development plans for terminals and other port uses; evaluates and processes Coastal Development Permits; conducts trade, maritime, and transportation related research; and performs siting assessments for hazardous cargo facilities.

REQUIREMENTS/ MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university; and
2. Two years of full-time paid professional experience in urban or port planning, maritime research, or economic analysis related to the transportation or maritime industry.

PROCESS NOTES
  
1. Applicants lacking six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met. 
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
3. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide proof of qualifying degree.
4. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position.  Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
5. A master's degree in Urban or Transportation Planning, Business Administration, or Economics from an accredited college or university may be substituted for one year of the required experience.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 


NOTE:
Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be submitted on-line by THURSDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2016. 


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from November 18, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100% 

The examination will consist entirely of a Training and Experience Questionnaire. In the Training and Experience Questionnaire candidates may be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, training, professional background and personal qualifications, including knowledge of: the principles, practices, and methods of economic, maritime, and transportation related research; and the ability to: prepare plans and programs for land and water use; analyze, interpret, and assemble data, including statistical data; communicate in writing in a clear and effective manner in order to prepare reports and complete forms; communicate orally in a clear and effective manner; deal tactfully and effectively with a variety of individuals and groups; and other necessary knowledge, skills and abilities.

The Training and Experience Questionnaire of all candidates will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation.  The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications as described on the Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the expert review panel. 

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the time and location of the written test. The Training and Experience Questionnaire will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, JANUARY 28, 2017, in Los Angeles. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their responses to the Training and Experience Questionnaire. 
	
NOTES:

1. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.  
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates. 
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidate's City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 9224 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-18-16 REV 11-29-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

