HOUSING INSPECTOR

Class Code:       4243
Open Date:  07-06-18
	Revised:  01-08-19
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$83,144 to $100,516

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is the beginning of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Housing Inspector inspects residential rental property locations for conformance to the building standards and codes contained in the State Housing Law and Regulations and City of Los Angeles Building Regulations, such as the Los Angeles Municipal Code, relating to the habitability, maintenance, sanitation, ventilation, use, and occupancy of said properties; and investigates code violation complaints and follows through with the code enforcement process by way of prosecution or administrative abatement.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. One year of full-time paid experience as an Assistant Inspector III with the City of Los Angeles; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience in carpentry, masonry, electrical, plumbing or heating following satisfactory completion of a recognized apprenticeship program; or
3. Eight years of full-time paid carpentry, masonry, heating, electrical or plumbing craft experience; or
4. Four years of full-time paid experience as a building construction superintendent, general contractor, or supervisor of journey-level craft employees engaged in construction work; or
5. Two years of full-time paid experience as a housing, building, electrical, plumbing, mechanical or combined inspector for a governmental agency; or
6. Two years of full-time paid experience working in the construction trades as a helper to a journey-level craft person; and
a. Completion of a certificate in Construction Inspection or Construction Technology; or
b. Possession of at least an Associate of Arts Degree from an accredited college or university with at least 12 semester or 18 quarter units in any of the following areas: engineering, construction, design, building inspection technology, construction inspection, architectural drafting, civil, mechanical, or electrical engineering technology.

PROCESS NOTES

1. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as a DUI).
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 or Requirement #6 must submit a copy of the corresponding certificate at the time of filing. The copy of the certificate must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the on-line application will not be considered further in this examination.
3. Upon appointment, a Housing Inspector will be required to furnish an automobile, properly insured, for use in City Service. Mileage will be paid on the basis of established rates.
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
5. Applicants filing under Requirement #6 must list their school name and location, specific course titles, the number of semester or quarter units, and completion dates for each course claimed as qualifying in the text box which will appear in the Supplemental Questions section of the on-line application.
6. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree and/or coursework.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed below:

From 8:00 am Tuesday, February 12, 2019 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, February 14, 2019
From 8:00 am Tuesday, May 14, 2019 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, May 16, 2019
From 8:00 am Tuesday, September 3, 2019 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, September 5, 2019
From 8:00 am Tuesday, November 26, 2019 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, November 28, 2019
From 8:00 am Tuesday, February 18, 2020 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, February 20, 2020

The examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. Filing periods may change without prior notice or additional dates may be added, as needed, at a later date. For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen on the dates noted in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. 

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of a multiple-choice written test. In the multiple-choice written test, the following competencies may be evaluated: reading comprehension; judgment and decision making; attention to detail; safety focus; composure; customer service; written communication; and job knowledge including knowledge of: the City of Los Angeles Municipal Code as it applies to existing buildings, including the Housing Code and portions of the Electrical, Plumbing, and Mechanical Codes; elements of the Fire Code relevant to multi-family dwellings, and fire and life safety issues related to existing residential occupancies; proper inspection procedures for residential rental housing units and the surrounding property in order to effectively inspect for habitability and code violations; and personal computers (PCs) sufficient to operate programs such as Google Suite and Microsoft Office Suite, and send e-mails; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional job analysis information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Housing Inspector.

The next written test will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, MARCH 2, 2019 in Los Angeles. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test. Additional test dates will be added as needed.

For future test administrations, candidates may have the option of choosing to take the multiple-choice test in-person at a City facility or on-line. Those who choose to take the multiple-choice test on-line may do so as instructed from a remote location, which may include your home or City facility, using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will be notified by e-mail if this option becomes available.

NOTES:

1.  This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. You may take the Housing Inspector written test only once every 24 months. If you have taken the Housing Inspector written test during an open filing period in the Personnel Department within the last 24 months, you may not file for this examination at this time.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
6. A final score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. In conjunction with Civil Services Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
8. Your rank on the employment list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of the examination are merged onto one list.
9. Your name may be removed from the open competitive list after 6 months.
10. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position. All City employees are required to be Disaster Service Workers.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 4243 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07-06-18 REV 01-08-19

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 

