INDUSTRIAL GRAPHICS SUPERVISOR

                                                                                                       Class Code:      1490
Open Date:  05-25-18
(Exam Open to All, Including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$102,458 to $108,179 and $153,217 to $161,757

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

An Industrial Graphics Supervisor plans, organizes and directs the work of employees of a graphics unit engaged in providing printing, duplicating, reprographic, stationery forms supply, photocopier support and related services for the Department of Water and Power; or assigns, reviews, and evaluates the work of employees engaged in printing, duplicating and reprographic services; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience supervising reproduction or print shop activities as a Reprographics Supervisor, Printing Services Supervisor, or in a class which is at that level with the City of Los Angeles; or
2. Four years of full-time paid experience as a Senior Duplicating Machine Operator with the City of Los Angeles supervising employees engaged in reproduction or print shop activities, or in a class which is at that level with the City of Los Angeles; or
3. Four years of full-time paid experience supervising employees engaged in a variety of photo reproduction or print shop activities, including the operation of: offset duplicating machines; electrostatic copier/duplicators; microfilm, photo reproduction, or diazo machines; or bindery equipment.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Industrial Graphics Supervisor Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Industrial Graphics Supervisor Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions of the City Application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2018.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Industrial Graphics Supervisor may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of an Industrial Graphics Supervisor, based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review, will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
                                      Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and background as they demonstrate the knowledge of: methods and procedures used in directing a large-scale operation providing reproduction, printing, and sign services for the Department of Water and Power (DWP); processes, practices, materials and techniques used in reproducing maps, plans, and other documents through the use of duplicating, reproduction, and printing; supply and perpetual inventory methods; effective safety principles and practices related to general office safety, production shop safety and the safe operation of production equipment and tools; methods of developing and installing new and improved work methods and procedures in order to handle changes to work procedures and equipment; practices and procedures in cost accounting, budgeting, and purchasing including specification preparation and evaluation of bids; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including planning, scheduling, delegating, directing, assigning, training, counseling, motivating, disciplining, and evaluating work performance; procedures for grievance handling; laws and regulations related to Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO); and the ability to plan and conduct cost studies on equipment, material, and operations; plan, direct, and review the activities of a diversified, largescale industrial graphics services unit; communicate effectively, both orally and in writing; deal tactfully and effectively with section heads, supervisors, subordinates, and other employees; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

As part of their evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. The Qualifications Questionnaire will not be separately scored but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate's qualifications. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the interview panel.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of AUGUST 13, 2018 TO AUGUST 24, 2018.

Prior to the interview, applicants will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of an Industrial Graphics Supervisor. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Please note that applicants must complete the advisory essay and meet minimum qualifications as stated in this bulletin in order to be considered further in the examination process.

The advisory essay will be administered on-line. Applicants invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps needed to complete the on-line advisory essay. Applicants will be required to complete the on-line advisory essay between FRIDAY, JULY 27, 2018 and SATURDAY, JULY 28, 2018. Additional instructions will be sent via e-mail. Applicants who fail to complete the advisory essay as instructed may be disqualified.

NOTES:

1. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis. 
6. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1490 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .05-25-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

