INSTRUMENT MECHANIC

 Class Code:       3843
 Open Date:  06-08-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$103,382 (flat-rated)
The salary in the Department of Airports is $105,282 (flat-rated)
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $105,840 (flat-rated)

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

An Instrument Mechanic performs highly skilled field and shop work in inspecting, troubleshooting, adjusting, calibrating, servicing, maintaining, overhauling, repairing, and testing various automatic controls and indicating and recording instruments and devices; analyzes instrumentation and related system malfunctions to determine necessary repairs; and adjusts programs on instrumentation and controls required to interface with process control computers.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Three years of full-time paid experience as a Steam Plant Assistant with the City of Los Angeles, one year of which shall be as a Steam Plant Assistant "A" in the Instrument Shop or Operations; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience at least at the level of Building Operating Engineer with the City of Los Angeles, which provides experience in the operation or maintenance of high temperature boilers or refrigeration equipment with a total capacity of 3,000 tons or more; or
3. Two years of full-time paid experience as an Electrical Tester with the City of Los Angeles; or
4. Two years of full-time paid instrument mechanic experience inspecting, adjusting, repairing and testing electronic and/or pneumatic control systems, including transmitting, indicating and recording instruments and controllers at oil refineries, chemical plants, water utility or wastewater treatment facilities. 

Completion of four semesters of course work on Automated Instrumentation and Controls from a recognized college may be substituted for one year of the required experience. Candidates must list courses completed, dates taken, and school attended according to the on-line instructions.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Only applicants that are currently or have previously worked in the Department of Water and Power as Steam Plant Assistants in the following DDR (Duties Description Record) numbers 82-38096, 82-56017, or as Steam Plant Operators in DDR numbers 94-56104 and 94-56105 and meet the above noted requirements, will qualify for this examination under requirement #1. 
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement has been met.
3. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if within the past 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.



APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JUNE 21, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight: Written Test. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of a multiple-choice written test. In the written test, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: functions and operating principles of electrical, electronic, mechanical, pneumatic, and hydraulic instruments and control devices and their component parts; tools, power tools, methods, and techniques used to disassemble, service, adjust, repair, test, calibrate and assemble electronic and computerized automatic controls and indicating and recording instruments; characteristics of generating plant equipment, building heat, ventilation, air conditioning (HVAC) equipment, and wastewater treatment and water purification plant; computer applications applied to instrument control systems sufficient to maintain, troubleshoot, interface with various equipment, and document results; principles of physics and chemistry relating to devices used to measure pressure, temperature, flow, pH and conductivity; regulatory and compliance rules and regulations such as the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD); safety principles and practices related to the job, including those related to work on energized equipment and near high pressure lines, hot water and steam lines, hazardous chemicals, moving equipment, and confined spaces; the ability to analyze analog, digital and microprocessor based instrumentation as used for interface with process control computers and other applications; configure program, and integrate Distributed Control Systems (DCSs), Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs) Human Machine Interfaces (HMIs) and related equipment; make mathematical calculations including the use of algebra, geometry, and trigonometry; read and interpret instructions, plans, piping and instrumentation drawing, diagrams and schematics related to instrument repair; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, AUGUST 11, 2018, in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. Based on the City policy, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol-screening testing prior to and during employment in this class.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. You may be required to pass an annual or periodic work fitness evaluation to determine your eligibility for continued employment.
6. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
8. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3843. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06-08-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

