IRRIGATION SPECIALIST
Class Code:       3913
Open Date:  02-06-15
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$49,631 to $61,679

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Irrigation Specialist performs skilled irrigation work by installing and repairing irrigation systems including sprinkler heads, fittings, valves, water lines, and irrigation control wiring. Incumbents may also perform routine ground maintenance and landscaping work and may act as a lead worker over employees engaged in irrigation, ground maintenance, or landscaping work. 


REQUIREMENTS

1. One year of full-time paid experience as a Senior Gardener with the City of Los Angeles performing work on irrigation systems including repairing and replacing sprinkler heads, fittings, valves, and irrigation water lines; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Gardener Caretaker with the City of Los Angeles performing work on irrigation systems including repairing and replacing sprinkler heads, fittings, valves, and irrigation water lines.

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application, each applicant is required to submit a City of Los Angeles Verification of Work Experience form (VWE).
2. Applicants may attach a copy of their Verification of Work Experience form to their City application, or submit the form within seven (7) calendar days from the on-line submission date of their application. Applicants may submit the VWE form to the Personnel Department Building, 700 E. Temple Street, Room 100, Los Angeles, CA 90012.  Applicants who fail to submit their documents within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed. 
3. The VWE form can be downloaded from http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf.  
4. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
5. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license prior to appointment. Candidates may be disqualified and not be eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Filing may close without prior notice after a sufficient number of applications are received.  For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen the following workday.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination score will be based entirely on the written test. In the written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: methods of repairing and replacing piping systems including water lines, valves and sprinklers; trenching and shoring techniques; use and care of gardening and maintenance equipment and tools; routine care and maintenance of the irrigation of golf courses, recreation areas, and grounds around buildings, such as scheduling irrigation and programming centrally controlled irrigation clocks; safety principles and practices, including basic first aid; City, State and Federal water rules and regulations; and the ability to repair and identify various types of water lines such as galvanized and PVC piping; install and repair irrigation systems including water lines, valves, wiring and sprinklers; use various plumbing and hand construction tools; read and interpret blueprints; make basic math calculations sufficient to estimate materials, cost and time needed for irrigation projects; act as lead worker; deal tactfully and effectively with the public, co-workers, contractors, supervisors, and other agencies; communicate in English in a clear and effective manner for the purpose of giving and receiving information, keeping records and preparing reports; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session.  The first date scheduled for the written test is SATURDAY, APRIL 4, 2015, in Los Angeles.  Future test dates will be scheduled later.

NOTES:

1. As provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. Candidates may file only once during the filing period indicated on this bulletin.  
8. Your rank on the employment list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of this examination are merged onto one list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 3913 CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 02-06-15

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

