LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURAL ASSOCIATE
Class Code:       7933
Open Date:  07-22-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$66,231 to $94,252; $74,082 to $105,444; $82,497 to $117,346; $89,638 to $127,556

NOTES:  

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies at the lower pay grade positions. 

DUTIES

A Landscape Architectural Associate performs professional landscape architectural work in the research, design, and preparation of plans, specifications, cost estimates, sketches and drawings for the development and rehabilitation of areas such as parks, playgrounds, recreational areas, public buildings, parking lots, malls, bridges, wastewater treatment plants, traffic islands, bikeways, drainage and erosion control projects, and other public works facilities; acts as project manager on development projects and reviews contracted design work; performs field review of projects; may supervise employees engaged in this work; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS

1.	Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a degree in landscape architecture; or 
2.  Completion of a four-year Professional Designation Certificate in landscape architecture from an accredited college or university; or
3.  Six years of sub-professional landscape architecture experience under a registered landscape architect. 

The completion of 30 semester or 45 quarter units in environmental design or landscape architecture from an accredited college or university may be substituted for each year of experience lacking. Applicants may substitute a maximum of two years of such education for the required experience. 

NOTES:

1. College seniors in a landscape architecture major within six months of graduation may also apply, but must present evidence of graduation prior to appointment.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last  36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. 
5. Appointments to the class of Landscape Architectural Associate, Class Code 7933, will be made to temporary training positions in accordance with Civil Service Rule 5.30 of the Rules of the Board of Civil Service Commissioners, for a maximum duration of four years.  Employees with two years of full-time paid City experience as a Landscape Architectural Associate I and passing any two sections of any one of the following exams:  the Uniform National Examination for Landscape Architects (UNE); or the Landscape Architects Registration Examination (LARE); or the Professional Examination for Landscape Architects (PELA); will automatically promote to Landscape Architectural Associate II.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at  https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 



NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, AUGUST 04, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from July 22, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  100%
 
The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidate's professional and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the candidate's background, experience and personal qualifications as they have prepared the candidate to perform the duties of a Landscape Architectural Associate, including knowledge of: characteristics and requirements of plants; water conservation techniques and irrigation systems; grading, storm water management, and erosion control; theory, principles, and current practices of landscape architecture as applied to the preparation of designs, plans, specifications, and cost estimates for landscape and site development; principles and practices of architecture and civil engineering as they apply to landscape and site development; and the ability to: prepare, analyze, and interpret sketches, renderings and drawings including working, construction and design drawings; keep accurate records such as project tracking and revisions; work with minimal supervision; efficiently obtain, interpret, and manipulate information stored in personal computers; use computer programs such as Computer Aided Drafting and Design (CADD), word processing, spread sheets and presentation software; clearly and persuasively communicate orally on a one-to-one or group basis; make persuasive and interactive oral presentations deal tactfully and effectively with employees, officials, and the public; prepare written reports, correspondence and plan review comments; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities. 

Please bring to the interview a portfolio of your landscape architectural work and identify up to a maximum of six work samples for discussion with an evaluation by the interview panel members.  Your portfolio will be returned to you after the conclusion of your interview. 

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of SEPTEMBER 26, 2016 through OCTOBER 7, 2016.

NOTES:	 

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered open candidates. 
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 7933 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07-22-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

