LAND SURVEYING ASSISTANT         
                     
                                                                                      Class Code:      7283
                                                                                 Open Date: 12-08-17 (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)



ANNUAL SALARY 

$66,440 to $97,133
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $85,858 to $106,675.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list normally are appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.  

DUTIES

A Land Surveying Assistant sets up and operates total stations, levels, theodolites, electronic distance measuring devices, Global Positioning System (GPS) equipment, data collectors, hydrographic equipment, and other survey instruments to secure data pertaining to lines, corners, elevations, grades, curves, alignments, positions, and water depths; makes field notes, sketches, and computer maps; performs computations, processes data; and may act as a Survey Party Chief when needed.


REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS  

1. Graduation from an accredited college or university with a degree in engineering or surveying and one year of full-time paid experience as a member of a field survey party or field crew; or
2. Four years of full-time paid experience as a Field Engineering Aide, or as a member of a field survey party performing sub-professional land surveying work in making precise readings, measurements, and tests in the field.


PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. A valid Land Surveyor in Training (LSIT) certificate issued by the State of California may be substituted for two years of the experience in Requirement #2. Applicants who wish to substitute the certification for experience must submit a copy of their LSIT certificate by attaching it to their online application at the time of filing.  The certification will not be considered for applicants who fail to submit a copy of their certification at the time of filing.
4. Satisfactory completion of eight courses from an accredited college or university in engineering and/or surveying may be substituted for one year of the experience in Requirement #2.  Applicants must list their school name and location, course titles, and completion dates for each course claimed as qualifying in the Supplemental Question section of the on-line application.
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency.  A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.




WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins also are available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, DECEMBER 21, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from December 8, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.
 
SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:


Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of a multiple-choice written test.  In the multiple-choice written test, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: the purpose, capabilities, and procedures for setting up, making adjustments to, and taking measurements with various surveying instruments, such as transit, automatic level, hand level, laser, echo sounder, electro-optical distance measuring device (EDM), GPS equipment, and data collector; Public Lands Surveys procedures and techniques; principles and practices for conducting various surveys, such as preliminary, boundary, site, control, topographic, litigations, geodetic, hydrographic, construction, and retracement surveys; the California Coordinate System as used to calculate positions, direction, and length; safety rules and regulations related to surveying from Cal/OSHA, Caltrans, and OSHA; hand signals used in surveying activities; algebra, including plane, solid, and analytical geometry, and plane trigonometry; Federal Communications Commission rules as they apply to radio operations used in surveying; abbreviations and symbols commonly used in written survey documents; and the ability to use various types of leveling rods to measure distance;  calculate horizontal curves, vertical curves, volumes, areas, traverses, traverse adjustments, curvature and refraction corrections, horizontal and vertical control networks, rates of grade, and slope stake positions; read a barometer and thermometer and compensate for environmental and atmospheric conditions; recognize and avoid potentially hazardous situations encountered in surveying activities; convert various systems of measurement; read, comprehend, and interpret information; visualize spatial relationships; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.  

ALLOWABLE CALCULATORS

Each candidate may bring one hand-held, self-contained scientific calculator.  A voltage supply will not be available in the examination room. You will not be permitted to refer to written instructions for the use of the calculator. A cellular phone with calculator functions will not be allowed. Written materials or aides will not be allowed in the test room. 

Only the following calculator models will be allowed for use during the written test: Hewlett Packard: HP 33S and HP 35S; Casio: All FX -115 models; Texas Instruments: All TI- 30X and TI- 36X models.  

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2018, in Los Angeles. 

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. Based on City policy, before being hired in this classification, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol screening test. 
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin. 
5. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates. 
6. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list. 
7. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates. 
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 


Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.


Class Code: 7283 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-08-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 





Class Code: 7283CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12-07-07


