LEGISLATIVE REPRESENTATIVE
Class Code:       9482
Open Date:  12-29-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$91,851 to $134,300
The salary in the Harbor Department is $101,455 to $148,331
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $105,757 to $131,376

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Legislative Representative represents the Harbor and Airports departments at meetings of the Los Angeles City Council or represents the Department at meetings of other governmental and civic committees, agencies, and boards; serves as a liaison between local neighborhood councils, Port citizen advisory committees, the Department, and the City Council; examines the effect of proposed legislation on Department or City interests and promotes legislation beneficial to the City or the Department.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles in a position at the level of Senior Management Analyst performing duties as a liaison with Council Committees, Commissions, or Mayor's office, concerning legislative matters; or
2. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university and five years of full-time paid professional experience in legislative analysis or legislative advocacy.

A graduate degree from an accredited college or university in law, government policy, public policy, public administration, political science, liberal studies, or closely related field may be substituted for one year of experience lacking in requirement #2.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application form, each applicant is required to complete the Legislative Representative Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Legislative Representative Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Question Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed. 
2. Applicants who lack six months of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement has been met.
3. For qualifying experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional", non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
5. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not be eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training. Only persons possessing the following at the close of the filing period may be considered for appointment to fill such positions.

1.  The ability to speak and write Spanish.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 


NOTE:


Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, JANUARY 11, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from December 29, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, an expert review committee may be assembled to evaluate each candidate's qualifications for the position of Legislative Representative. In this evaluation, the expert review committee will assess each candidate's training and experience based upon the information in the candidate's City employment application and the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered by the expert review committee as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Legal Representative, based solely on the information presented to the committee, will be invited to participate in the interview.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of: Federal, State, Regional, City and local legislation affecting the operation or control of departments in the City of Los Angeles; legislative methods, techniques and procedures of the City of Los Angeles, the State of California, and federal legislative bodies; sources of information on proposed and pending legislation; and the ability to analyze proposed legislation and plan and carry out effective strategies in promoting the department's position on legislative matters; communicate and deal professionally and persuasively with elected officials, commissioners, administrators, Department management, City Council, and others sufficient to advocate the department's position on legislative matters, draw out opinions, positions, ideas or facts; speak convincingly before various groups such as elected officials, commissioners, and the City Council to advocate the department's position on legislative matters; draw out opinions, positions and facts from legislators, managers, officials and others to use as a basis for legislative representation and development; write letters, financial impact reports and legislative proposals using proper grammar and syntax sufficient to recommend or explain technical and administrative information; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

As part of their evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. The Qualifications Questionnaire will not be separately scored but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate's qualifications. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the interview panel.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of APRIL 2, 2018 TO APRIL 13, 2018. 

NOTES:	

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided in Section 1011 of the City Charter.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.  
5. A final score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
8. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applications who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates. 
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 9482 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-29-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


Class Code 9482 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-29-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

