MACHINIST
Class Code:       3763
Open Date:  06-10-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$81,703 (flat-rated)
The salary in the Harbor Department is $96,486 (flat-rated)
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $99,514 (flat-rated) and $103,105 (flat-rated)

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
4. Higher salaries are paid for shift and night work.
5. Some positions in the class occasionally require individuals to work at locations outside Los Angeles area for short periods of time.
6. Some positions in the class occasionally require individuals to work at locations outside Los Angeles a year full-time (such as Owens Valley and Mojave areas).

DUTIES

A Machinist cuts and shapes metals and other materials using precision conventional and computerized numerical control machine tools and hand tools in the fabrication of parts and the construction, assembly, installation or repair of various types of machinery, equipment tools, and dies; and disassembles, repairs and reassembles machinery where fine alignment and close tolerances are required.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Completion of a recognized apprenticeship as a machinist; or
2. Six years of full-time paid experience performing machine shop work; or
3. Completion of a recognized United States Military machinist training program such as the U.S. Navy Machinery Repairman, U.S. Marine Corp Machinist, U.S. Army Machinist, or U.S. Air Force Aircraft Metals Technology. 

Completion of at least an 18-month machine shop program from a recognized institution can be substituted for each year of experience up to a maximum of two years. 

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met. 
2. Applicants filing under Requirement Number 1 must submit an apprenticeship certificate or card at the time of filing. 
3. Mechanical Helpers and Mechanical Repairers with the City of Los Angeles filing under Requirement Number 2 MUST submit a City of Los Angeles "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form, signed by their supervisor, which must indicate the percentage of time performing the work that is claimed as qualifying experience. The VWE form may be obtained on-line at  per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf. Applicants may attach the completed Verification of Work Experience (VWE) form to their on-line application at the time of filing or will have 7 calendar days from the submittal of their on-line application to deliver the VWE form to the Personnel Department Building, 700 E. Temple Street, Room 100, Los Angeles, CA 90012. Applicants who fail to submit a copy of their VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed. 
4. Applicants filing under Requirement Number 3 must submit a U.S. Military "Report of Separation" Form (DD Form 214), and their machinist certificate at the time of filing. 
5. Applicants must attach a copy of their apprenticeship certificate, U.S. Military "Report of Separation" Form (DD Form 214), and/or machinist certificate to the on-line application before the application is submitted. If these documents are attached after the on-line application has been submitted, they will not be available to the City and the applicants will not be credited with having submitted the documents. Applicants who fail to submit their documents at the time of filing by attaching them to the on-line application will not be considered further in this examination. 
6. Some positions may require a valid California Class B (or C) driver's license  and valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles, prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
7. In some positions, employees will be required to furnish their own small hand tools.
8. Some positions at the Hyperion Treatment Plant may require that employees be clean shaven for use of Self Contained Breathing Apparatus.
9. Some positions in the Department of Water and Power may require climbing and working on 275 foot wind turbines.



WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JUNE 23, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from June 10, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of a written test comprised of multiple choice questions. In the written test, the following competencies may be evaluated: mathematics; safety focus; mechanical aptitude; teamwork; and job knowledge, which includes knowledge of: equipment operation, which includes operation of jigs, fixtures, tools, dies, and machine shop tools including but not limited to mills, lathes, vertical turret lathes, drill presses, band saws, and surface grinders sufficient to repair and fabricate machines, machine parts and equipment; terminology used in cutting and shaping metal and other materials such as turn, mill, broach, grind, and fit for the fabrication and repair of various types of machinery and equipment; methods used to disassemble, repair, and assemble gas, diesel, and marine engines, steam and hydraulic turbines, fire apparatus and pumps, vehicular and construction equipment, water distribution and power generating equipment, asphalt and sewage treatment plant equipment, and a variety of other mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, and electrical assemblies in order to correctly dissemble assemblies without causing damage, effectively eliminating defects by performing repairs, and correctly reassembling assemblies for future use; manual inspection procedures including but not limited to indicator run out and precision measuring tools such as micrometers and calipers; methods used for repairs on engines, turbines, pumps, compressors, valves, pneumatic tools, and other special equipment and their component parts such as parts fabrication or modification in order to restore the equipment back to normal operating conditions; drafting practices including but not limited to technical drawing and computer aided drawing (CAD) sufficient to create and interpret blueprints, drawings, sketches, and specifications related to the machinist trade; computer numerical control (CNC) machinery, such as milling machines and lathes; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/JobAnalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Machinist.

Candidates will be notified later by email of the time and location of the written test, which will be held in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, AUGUST 20, 2016, in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. Based on City policy, before being hired in one of these positions, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol screening test.
3. The incumbents of some positions in this class may be required to pass an annual or periodic work fitness evaluation to determine their eligibility for continued employment in this class.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
6. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
7. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
8. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
9. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates. 
10. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3763 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .06-10-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

