MANAGING WATER UTILITY ENGINEER

Class Code:      9406
Open Date: 03-24-17
REVISED: 04-04-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY   

$148,561 to $184,579; $156,850 to $194,873; $190,404 to $236,549, $201,011 to $249,745; and $212,224 to $263,672

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Managing Water Utility Engineer may serve as the director or assistant director of a Division, or manager of a Section, or major project in the Water System of the Department of Water and Power; may serve as an assistant to the General Manager or to the Senior Assistant General Manager-Water; performs difficult and responsible professional engineering and administrative work in managing and supervising the preparation of plans, design and specifications, contracts, budgets, studies, treatments, legislative reports and procedures related to the various components of the water supply, water distribution, water quality, water treatments or water operations and maintenance activities of the Department, including achieving and maintaining regulatory compliance; executes the Safety Program and develops safety initiatives for a Water Systems division; develops and implements Division goals and policies; applies sound management and supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective workforce; and fulfills Equal Employment Opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience at the level of Waterworks Engineer in the Water System of the Department of Water and Power, performing professional engineering work in the design, construction, operation, or maintenance of water systems and facilities; and
2. Registration as a Professional Engineer with the California Board of Registration for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement has been met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified, and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as a DUI). 
3. Registration as a Professional Engineer with the California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists is required at time of filing. Applicants must list their professional engineer license number and expiration date in the Supplemental Questions Section of the on-line application.
4. A California State Water Resources Control Board Distribution Operator Certificate (Grade 2, 3, 4 or 5) may be required for some positions.
5. Individual positions in this class may require registration in a specific engineering discipline. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 


NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Essay . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
                                      Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

Your examination will be based entirely of an evaluation of qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the candidate's background and experience as they have provided the knowledge of: principles and practices of waterworks engineering as applied in administering the planning, design, construction, operation, and maintenance of a large waterworks system; organization of the Water System; safety principles, practices, and management; budgetary preparation; project delivery principles; and laws and regulations related to Equal Employment Opportunity and sexual harassment; the ability to: lead and manage employees engaged in Water System activities; coordinate the work of one or more divisions, sections or groups; plan and direct work programs and organizational procedures for normal and emergency operations; analyze and evaluate proposals; deal tactfully and effectively with employees, governmental officials and the public; negotiate with contractors, engineers, representatives of governmental agencies and labor groups; reconcile community, City and business needs; respond appropriately to questions presented in meetings, hearings, negotiation sessions or legal proceedings; communicate orally in a clear concise, confident and effective manner; write clear, cohesive and sound correspondence and reports to management and other Water and Power related entities, effectively using technical and non-technical terminology to convey the intended information; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities. 

At the time of the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material on a topic related to the duties and responsibilities of a Managing Water Utility Engineer. This essay material will not be scored separately, but will be presented to the interview panel for discussion and consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory writing session may be disqualified. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their writing exercise responses.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of MAY 29, 2017 to JUNE 9, 2017.

NOTES:
	
1. Appointment to this class is subject to a one-year probationary period under the provisions of Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Candidates will accrue seniority credit at a rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those City classes which provide qualifying experience for this position. A maximum of one point will be added to the score of the candidate.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
 ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.


Class Code 9406 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  03-24-17 REV 04-04-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

