






MARINE ENVIRONMENTAL SUPERVISOR    
                           
 										Class  Code:      9433    
                                                                                                       Open Date:  07-11-14

ANNUAL SALARY

 $92,769 to $115,278
*$85,503 to $106,216

NOTES:

*1.  Individuals hired on or after July 2, 2013 shall be hired at three (3) premium levels (one premium level equals 2.75%) 
      below the salary range.
 2.  Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
 3.  The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 

DUTIES

A Marine Environmental Supervisor oversees the preparation of studies of the Los Angeles Harbor, hazardous materials site assessments, characterization and remedial action plans, air and water quality programs, environmental assessments, environmental impact reports, and statements relative to the effect of port development on the environment; supervises the preparation and administration of contracts for technical environmental services and research; supervises the analysis of proposed environmental legislation; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS

1.	Three years full-time paid professional experience at the level of Environmental Specialist, responsible for performing technical marine environmental activities, such as designing and implementing comprehensive studies of water or sediment quality in coastal zones and preparing comprehensive environmental assessments of coastal marine development projects; or
2. A Master's degree in environmental, ecological, or biological science, or oceanography, geology, environmental planning, environmental law, or a related field and two years of full-time paid professional experience at the level of Environmental Specialist as described in requirement #1.

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application form, each applicant is required to complete the Marine Environmental Supervisor Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Marine Environmental Supervisor Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Question Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed. 
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from a recognized four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
4. Minimum requirements for an Environmental Specialist is either (a) graduation from a recognized four-year college with a degree in environmental, ecological, biological, chemical, atmospheric, environmental health,  environmental planning, or related field with at least 15 semester units or 20 quarter units in environmental studies; or (b) graduation from a recognized four-year college and one year of full-time paid professional experience performing technical environmental review and analysis.
5. A valid California driver's license is required. Candidates will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if within the past 36 months they were convicted of a major moving violation, such as driving under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs, and may be disqualified if there are three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents within the past 36 months.

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training in one or more of the following areas.  Only persons possessing the following at the time of filing may be considered for appointment to fill such positions:

1. One year of full-time paid professional experience in managing and preparing environmental assessments, including Environmental Impact Reports and Statements pursuant to CEQA/NEPA requirements for port or coastal marine developmental projects.




WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted online. When you are viewing the online job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. Online job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from July 11, 2014 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

EXPERT REVIEW COMMITTEE

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, an expert review committee may be assembled to evaluate each candidate's qualifications for the position of Marine Environmental Supervisor. In this evaluation, the expert review committee will assess each candidate's training and experience based upon the information in the candidate's City employment application and the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered by the expert review committee as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Marine Environmental Supervisor, based solely on the information presented to the committee, will be invited to participate in the interview.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, JULY 24, 2014. 


SELECTION PROCESS 

Examination Weight:  Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's education, training, and experience as they relate to the knowledge of: effects of pollutants on marine and terrestrial ecosystems; existing and proposed laws and regulations on port and coastline pollution; methods of combating and controlling pollution problems; technological advances that minimize the environmental impact of development projects; instruments and techniques for testing the quality of ocean and ground waters, air, soil, and sediments; environmental regulatory agencies and their responsibilities; safety principles and practices used in handling hazardous materials and laboratory testing at contamination sites; principles and practices of supervision including: directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending, and evaluating the work of subordinates; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity and Memoranda of Understanding; and the ability to analyze environmental problems and prepare comprehensive programs for solution; direct and coordinate the work of groups of employees and consultants engaged in environmental activities; deal tactfully and effectively with others; effectively communicate orally and in writing, in a clear, concise manner; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

The Qualifications Questionnaire will not be separately scored, but will be considered by the interview board in evaluating each candidate's qualifications. Candidates may expect the panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board.

Candidates will be notified by mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of OCTOBER 20, 2014 to OCTOBER 31, 2014.

NOTES: 

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. In conjunction with Civil Service rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. If, in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores, all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration,  the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidate's City application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

GLOSSARY 9 - CITY COUNCIL REVIEW STATEMENT	THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 9433................................................................................................................................................07-11-14

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER



