MARINE AQUARIUM PROGRAM DIRECTOR

Class Code:      2403
Open Date:  08-25-17
					(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$64,686 to $94,586

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting offer.
 
DUTIES

A Marine Aquarium Program Director plans, directs and participates in lectures, classes, tours and other programs dealing with marine subjects; supervises employees and volunteers engaged in conducting marine educational programs, tours, and classes; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINUMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. A Bachelor's Degree in life science from a an accredited college or university; and two years of full-time paid professional experience in preparing marine science programs for educational and recreational purposes; or
2. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university and four years of full-time paid professional experience preparing marine science programs for educational and recreational purposes; or
3. A Master's Degree in Marine Biology or related field.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Marine Aquarium Program Director Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Marine Aquarium Program Director Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions of the City Application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Applicants must list their school name and location, type of degree earned and major in the Education Section of the City application.  Applicants who fail to provide this information on their application will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited Institutions 08-21-08.pdf.
5. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position.  Therefore, to be considered "professional", non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
6. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.
7. Every candidate that is scheduled for the Marine Aquarium Program Director interview will be required to complete their interview on an electronic device (i.e., computer, mobile device, tablet, etc.) using the video messaging program Skype. In order to use Skype you must have the following program and equipment prior to your scheduled interview date and time: an up-to-date electronic device that meets the minimum system requirements to run Skype, the latest version of Skype downloaded on your device (please go to http://www.skype.com/en/ and click the download Skype icon), internet connection (a high-speed broadband connection is recommended), a built-in or external webcam (high-quality or HD webcam is recommended), and a microphone and speakers (built-in or external). Please visit https://support.skype.com/en/faq/FA10328/what-are-the-system-requirements-for-skype in order to view the system requirements for running Skype on different operating systems. You may also visit https://support.skype.com/en/faq/FA597/what-do-i-need-to-make-a-video-call for more details on what you will need in order to make a video call, for information about call and video quality, and to determine if your computer meets the hardware requirements. If you need any additional help using Skype please visit https://support.skype.com/en/. On the support webpage some helpful links can be found under the headings: Video calling and Skype for devices.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin. Applications submitted before the start of the filing period will not be accepted. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 


NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from August 25, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Marine Aquarium Program Director may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Marine Aquarium Program Director, based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review, will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 and the qualifications review as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of experience and personal qualifications by interview.  During the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of: public marine aquarium operations sufficient to develop, implement, and deliver programs and services that creatively and effectively educate the public on Southern California ocean life; problems normally encountered in public marine aquarium operations; informal science education techniques involved in the development and coordination of lectures, tours, and classes dealing with marine subjects; marine biology and oceanography as it relates to conservation and exploration of the ocean; safety principles and practices related to the preparation and conduct of programs at a public marine aquarium; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including  delegating, directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending and evaluating the work of subordinates; laws and regulations related to Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO); and the ability to direct, through subordinate supervisors, the development, implementation, and documentation of evaluations for marine aquarium programs; develop, administer, and monitor annual and project-specific budgets; estimate resources such as staffing, equipment, and time needed for marine aquarium programs and activities; direct, coordinate, and supervise the work of subordinates; prepare written material, such as articles, reports, pamphlets, and lectures related to marine subjects; communicate effectively, sufficient to speak in public to a diverse audience or to adapt lectures on scientific subjects for various types of audiences; deal tactfully and effectively with coworkers, volunteers, the public, youth, and various clubs, businesses, and governmental organizations; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

As part of their evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. The Qualifications Questionnaire will not be separately scored but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate's qualifications. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the interview panel.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date and time of the interview. All candidates scheduled for an interview will be required to complete the interview on an electronic device (i.e., computer, mobile device, tablet, etc.) using the video messaging program Skype. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of NOVEMBER 6, 2017 TO NOVEMBER 17, 2017.  

NOTES:

1. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period under the provisions of Charter Section 1011.
2. An employee in this position may be subject to weekend and evening work assignments.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
7. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis. 
8. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 2403. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .08-25-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess




