MATERIALS TESTING ENGINEERING ASSOCIATE



                                                                                                     Class Code:       7967
                                                                                                     Open Date:  05-18-18
						(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$66,231 to $96,841; $74,082 to $108,346; $82,496 to $120,582; and $89,637 to $131,063
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $82,496 to $102,499; $98,010 to $121,772; $106,341 to $132,128; and $114,318 to $142,004.

NOTES:
 
1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Materials Testing Engineering Associate performs professional engineering work in making physical tests of soils and construction materials; inspects pipe fabrication, concrete and asphalt batchings, earthwork and fill for certification; prepares preliminary reports for test results; may supervise professional and technical personnel involved in this work; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a degree in engineering, physics, chemistry, mathematics, geology, or a closely related field; or
2. Possession of a valid Engineer-in-Training (EIT) Certificate recognized by the California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 who are within six months of graduation from an accredited four-year college or university may apply. However, they cannot be appointed until the full education requirement has been met. 
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 must list their school name and location, type of degree earned and major in the Education Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to provide this information on their application will not be considered further in this examination.
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 must list their Engineer-In-Training (EIT) certification number in the Supplemental Questions Section of the on-line application at the time of filing. Applicants who fail to provide their EIT certification number will not be considered further in this examination. 
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
5. Appointments to the job class of Materials Testing Engineering Associate, Class Code 7967, will be made to temporary training positions in accordance with Section 5.30 of the Rules of the Board of Civil Service Commissioners, for a maximum duration of three years. In order to successfully complete the temporary training period, new appointees must obtain their EIT Certificate within three years. New appointees who do not successfully complete the temporary training period will be terminated from the class.
6. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
7. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree. 


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 31, 2018. 

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received.  Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Judgment and Decision Making, Teamwork, Flexibility, Credibility, Shares Knowledge and Information, Project Management, Safety Focus, including safety procedures and use of personal protective equipment as required by the California Occupational Safety and Health Administration when working with or around nuclear radiation and hazardous gases and materials, working in confined spaces, or around loud noises; and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: the principles, laws, theories and concepts of engineering, chemistry, geology, and physics as they pertain to the strength of materials, the laws of mechanics, and quantitative and qualitative analysis; standards, codes, and regulations related to the testing of soil and construction materials, as required by the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO), American Society for Non-Destructive Testing (ASNT), and the City of Los Angeles Standard Specification for Public Works Construction; commonly used construction and maintenance materials and their characteristics; equipment used in the laboratory or field for testing soil and construction materials and their specific uses; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Materials Testing Engineering Associate.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JULY 16, 2018 to JULY 27, 2018.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7967 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05-18-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

