MECHANICAL ENGINEERING DRAFTING TECHNICIAN  

Class Code:     7551
Open Date: 12-14-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$51,845 to $75,794
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $71,660 to $89,011; $76,191 to $94,649; and $79,156 to $98,344

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 
3. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Mechanical Engineering Drafting Technician performs responsible mechanical engineering drafting in the preparation of drawings for a variety of hydroelectric, electric generation stations, water facilities and mechanical equipment and installations.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Completion of 12 semester units or 18 quarter units in drafting, including 3 semester or 4 quarter units in Computer Aided Drafting Design (CADD) and 6 semester or 9 quarter units in mathematics, at an accredited college, trade school or technical school; or
2. Two years of full-time paid engineering drafting experience, one year of which was in mechanical engineering drafting.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants qualifying under Requirement #1 must list their school name and location, course titles with number of semester or quarter units, and completion dates for each course claimed as qualifying in the Education Section of the on-line City Application.
2. A combination of coursework and experience will not be accepted as meeting the requirements. 
3. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required education or experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full requirement is met. 
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/documents/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
	
WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.
        
        NOTE:
        
        Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter. 
        
        APPLICATION DEADLINE
        
Applications must be received by THURSDAY, DECEMBER 27, 2018.




In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 


SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight: Multiple-Choice Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%


The examination will consist entirely of a weighted multiple-choice test administered and proctored on-line. In the on-line multiple-choice test, candidates may be tested for knowledge of: principles, methods, equipment, and materials used in mechanical engineering drafting, including various computer aided drafting (CAD) software applications; drafting conventions, symbols, and details used in different types of mechanical engineering drawings; characteristics of various reproduction processes including allowable amount of reduction or enlargement, quality of reproduction and dimensional stability; principles of orthographic, isometric, oblique, and perspective projection drawings; relevant provisions of the City of Los Angeles Building Code, Fire Code and Mechanical Code, and California Administrative Code-Title 24 (energy requirements), plumbing code and electrical code; mathematics, including arithmetic, algebra, geometry, and trigonometry; and the ability to read, interpret, and analyze schematics, charts, graphs, tables, and other technical information relating to the progress of drafting work and related problems; work well and cooperatively in a group; deal tactfully, persuasively, and effectively with other employees, the public and others; accurately estimate time required to complete  projects; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

The multiple-choice test will be proctored and administered on-line during a single session. Candidates invited to participate in the on-line multiple-choice test will be able to take the test from a remote location using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the dates and specific steps on how to take the multiple-choice test on-line. It is anticipated that the remote proctored multiple-choice test will be administered between MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2019 AND MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2019. Candidates who do not complete and submit the remote proctored multiple-choice test on-line using a computer by the specified date and time will not be considered further in this examination.

FAQs for on-line testing are available at http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess. Candidates who do not have the required equipment may have the option to take the multiple-choice test onsite at a City facility. 

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the multiple-choice test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis. 
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be use ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates. 
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered open candidates.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7551. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12-14-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

