MECHANICAL ENGINEERING ASSOCIATE
Class Code:       7554
Open Date:  06-16-17
 (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$66,231 to $94,252; $74,082 to $105,444; $82,496 to $117,345; and $89,637 to $127,555
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $78,905 to $98,031; $93,772 to $116,489; $101,685 to $126,365; and $109,327 to $135,824.

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Mechanical Engineering Associate performs professional mechanical engineering work in the preparation of plans, designs, specifications, reports, estimates, recommendation of awards, studies, quality assurance programs, safety and health testing, and in research, testing and inspection activities related to the manufacturing, construction, installation, operation and maintenance of mechanical equipment and systems, or checking mechanical systems of buildings for code compliance and operation and maintenance feasibility; may perform code enforcement functions relating to design and specifications of plumbing, mechanical and elevator installations and related equipment approval; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. A Bachelor's or Master's degree in engineering from an accredited college or university, which includes at least 24 semester units or 36 quarter units of core courses in mechanical engineering; or
2. Certification as an Engineer-In-Training recognized by the State of California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists; or
3. Registration as a Professional Engineer with the State of California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists.


 PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Mechanical Engineering Associate Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Mechanical Engineering Associate Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who are within six months of graduation from an accredited college or university may apply.  However, you cannot be appointed until you have completed all your course work, including the 24 semester units or 36 quarter units described in Requirement No. 1.  
3. Applicants filing under Requirement No. 1 must list the following information in the appropriate section of their online application. Applicants who fail to provide the information on their application will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed. 
a. School name and location, type of degree earned and major in the Education Section of the application; and
b. Core mechanical engineering course titles with the number of semester or quarter units, school attended and completion dates in the Supplemental Questions Section of the application.
4. Applicants filing under Requirement No. 2 or No. 3 must list their Engineer-In-Training (EIT) certification number or Professional Engineer (PE) registration number on the Supplemental Questions Section of the online application. At the time of appointment, candidates must submit to the department which appoints them, verification of their EIT certification or PE license.
5. You may take the Mechanical Engineering Associate interview only once every 365 days from the date you were last added to the eligible list.  If you have taken the Mechanical Engineering Associate interview in a campus environment with any City of Los Angeles department or LADWP, a special recruitment event, or during an open filing period in the Personnel Department or have interviewed for this position within the last 12 months, you may not file for this examination at this time.
6. Appointments will be made to temporary training positions in accordance with Section 5.30 of the Rules of the Board of Civil Service Commissioners for a maximum duration of three years.  In order to successfully complete the temporary training period, new appointees must obtain their Engineer-In-Training (EIT) Certificate within three years.  New appointees who do not successfully complete the temporary training period will be terminated from the class.
7. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
8. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
9. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.
WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity   for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter. 
2. All application materials must be completed at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from June 16, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

	Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Mechanical Engineering Associate may be evaluated based on the candidate's responses to the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Mechanical Engineering Associate based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 and qualifications review as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:


Examination Weight:  Interview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an interview.  In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Judgment and Decision Making, Self-Management, Teamwork, Oral Communication, Written Communication, Mathematics including knowledge of: intermediate mathematics such as calculus in order to perform necessary engineering calculations; statistical concepts such as mean, mode, and standard deviation sufficient to analyze and prepare information relating to system and equipment performance, and the planning of facilities; and Job Knowledge including knowledge of: engineering economics used to analyze proposals relating to new projects, betterments, and maintenance; software applications used to perform calculations, organize data, or create graphs; the principles and practices of fluid mechanics including fluid statics and fluid dynamics; thermodynamics, heat transfer, and combustion in order to analyze mechanical systems; machine design, stress analysis and metallurgy in order to determine the proper selection and application of equipment and materials; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities. 

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Mechanical Engineering Associate.  

The Qualifications Questionnaire will not be separately scored, but will be considered by the interview board in evaluating each candidate's qualifications. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of AUGUST 14, 2017 TO AUGUST 25, 2017.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 7554   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06-16-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER



Class Code 7554  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .06-16-17

