MECHANICAL HELPER

Class Code:       3771
Open Date:  01-13-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$39,839 to $58,234; $43,388 to $63,412

The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $44,402 to $54,935; $55,102 to $68,444; $61,491 to $76,379.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. In some positions, higher salaries are paid for night, hazardous or obnoxious work.

DUTIES

A Mechanical Helper assists mechanics, machinists, welders, blacksmiths, pipefitters, plumbers, boilermakers and other mechanical craft workers; and performs routine mechanical maintenance and repair tasks. 

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS 

1. Completion of a course in automotive mechanics, machine shop, welding, plumbing, pipefitting or any other mechanical craft course from the Los Angeles Unified School District, or a college or trade school; or
2. Six months of full-time paid experience in mechanical work; or
3. Completion of eight months in the Utility Pre-Craft Trainee training program sponsored by the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 must list their school name and location, appropriate course titles, their respective number of semester or quarter units, and completion dates for each course claimed as qualifying in the text box which will appear in the Supplemental Questions section of the online application.  
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #3 who lack two months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until completion of eight months in the Utility Pre-Craft Trainee program, as indicated in Requirement #3.
3. A valid California Class C or Class B driver's license may be required. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as a DUI). For positions requiring a valid class B driver's license, candidates will be asked to submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1808.1 prior to appointment. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line from 8:00 a.m. TUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2017 to MIDNIGHT, THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2017. Applicants may apply on-line beginning at 8:00 a.m. on TUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2017. Applications submitted before the start of the filing period will not be accepted. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm  for Open Competitive Examinations.


NOTE:
 
Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications will be accepted on-line only on the following three days: from 8:00 a.m. TUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2017; WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2017; to midnight THURSDAY JANUARY 26, 2017. 

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from January 13, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:  Written Test  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination score will be based entirely on a multiple choice written test in which candidates may be examined for knowledge of: use and function of tools and equipment commonly found in mechanical trades; hazards of working with shop machines and safety precautions; basic arithmetic; the ability to: read and comprehend written job instructions, technical manuals, and equipment specifications; read and interpret drawings and mechanical objects; deal tactfully and effectively with others; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, MARCH 18, 2017 in Los Angeles. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by the Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Based on City policy, before being hired in one of these positions, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol-screening test.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN 
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


Class Code 3771 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  01-13-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

