MECHANICAL REPAIRER

Class Code:       3773
Open Date:  09-21-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$82,000 (flat-rated)
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $82,204 (flat-rated). 

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 

DUTIES

A Mechanical Repairer does a variety of tasks in maintaining and repairing mechanical equipment and tools.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid experience at the helper level performing mechanical repair work.

Completion of the Los Angeles Trade Tech Air-Cooled Engine curriculum may be substituted for a maximum of one year of the required experience. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. For applicants substituting the Los Angeles Trade Tech Air-Cooled Engine curriculum for the experience, a copy of the Certificate of Completion must be attached to the online application at the time of filing. The copy of the certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the document is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with completing the program. Applicants who fail to submit the Certificate of Completion at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.
3. An Environmental Protection Agency Universal Technician Certificate issued under the provisions of Section 608 of the Clean Air Act may be required prior to appointment.
4. Some positions may require a valid California Class B or Class C driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
5. For positions requiring a valid Class B driver's license, candidates will be asked to submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVS Section 1808.1 prior to appointment.
WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2018.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of a multiple-choice written test in which candidates may be examined for knowledge of: methods, materials, equipment, tools, and terminology of the trades used in mechanical repair work, including welding, brazing, soldering, tool grinding and sharpening; plumbing materials, procedures, and practices; safe hoisting and rigging practices for heavy machinery and equipment; safety precautions used when working with hand/power tools and shop equipment; safety procedures used to prevent or extinguish electrical, chemical, gasoline, and other types of shop and equipment fires; basic mathematics used to measure parts and tolerances, lay out production work, and estimate material usage; and the ability to comprehend and apply mechanical principles as related to the operation and repair of tools; plan and lay out sheet metal, iron, and other heavy metal production work; read, understand, and interpret technical material such as shop records, repair manuals, supply catalogs, schematics, exploded views, and diagrams; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2018.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Based on City policy, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
4. The incumbents of some positions in this class may be required to pass an annual or periodic work fitness evaluation to determine their eligibility for continued employment in this class.
5. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin. 
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
8. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3773. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09-21-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to:  http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess



AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

