MECHANICAL ENGINEER
         Class Code:        7558	
         Open Date:   10-06-17
                                                                      (Exam Open to Current City Employees)
 
ANNUAL SALARY

$119,078 to $147,934; $124,444 to $154,595; and $126,846 to $157,623

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
3. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Mechanical Engineer performs responsible mechanical engineering work in assigning, reviewing, and evaluating the work of professional and technical employees engaged in the preparation of plans, designs, specifications, agreements or contracts, engineering economic and cost analysis studies, estimates, conceptual studies, feasibility studies, and reports; directs the construction, installation, inspection, testing, start-up, commissioning, operation, repair, and maintenance of a wide variety of mechanical facilities and appurtenant equipment; utilizes or oversees the utilization of sound project management tools and techniques related to major capital projects; reviews and makes recommendations regarding new technology; identifies and resolves technical, environmental, regulatory and legislative issues associated with the design, construction and operation of facilities, systems and equipment; may supervise the development and implementation of administrative systems and studies; supervises engineers performing technical and administrative work on engineering projects; and applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid professional engineering experience in a position at the level of Mechanical Engineering Associate II, Class Code 7554; and
2. Registration as a Professional Engineer in Mechanical Engineering with the State of California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists.
				
PROCESS NOTES

1. To be at the level of a Mechanical Engineering Associate II, an Engineer-in-Training (EIT) certificate is required. Therefore, qualifying experience is gained in positions after obtaining an EIT certificate.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. All applicants who are registered as a Professional Engineer must list their license number in the Supplemental Questions section. Applicants who do not provide this information may be disqualified.  

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 
NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.  

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS

	After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:


Examination Weights:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50%				                       		   Interview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50%

The examination will consist of a written test and interview. In the written test, which will consist of essay questions, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: mechanical engineering and related subjects; systems functions; safety regulations and codes such as CAL/OSHA; project management, including cost and scheduling control, project scope control, and contract administration; performance and start-up, acceptance, and other tests; relevant City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity; supervisory principles and practices, including assignment and delegation of work, performance evaluation, training, discipline, motivation and grievance handling; and ability to write effective administrative and technical letters, memos, and reports; communicate effectively in writing sufficient to write, negotiate, and recommend awards for bids on materials, construction, services, and related items; administer contracts and specifications; deal tactfully and effectively with other departments, government agencies, vendors, utilities, subordinates, management and the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test that will be administered in a single half-day session in Los Angeles on SATURDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2017. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their essay responses.

Candidates must achieve a passing score in the written test in order to be invited to the interview.

In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the nature and adequacy of the candidate's experience, training, and personal qualifications required to perform the broad range of duties assigned to incumbents of this class, including knowledge of: mechanical engineering and related subjects; systems functions; testing procedures and problems related to material and equipment acceptance; safety regulations and codes such as CAL/OSHA; project management, including cost and scheduling controls, project scope control, and contract administration; performance and start-up, acceptance, and other tests; computer applications; relevant City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity; and ability to estimate and budget expenditures, provide technical support, and coordinate the work of engineering, construction, operations, and maintenance personnel; implement supervisory principles and practices, including training, delegation, and monitoring subordinates work; communicate in a clear, concise and effective manner; deal tactfully and effectively with other departments, government agencies, vendors, utilities, subordinates, management and the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection. 
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
3. Applications accepted are subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated in this bulletin. 
4. Unless otherwise stated, in promotional examinations a minimum score of 65% in a weighted written test, including seniority credits added to your examination grade at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, is necessary in order to be called for subsequent portions of the examination. 
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list. 
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON AN
 INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 7558 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-06-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to:  http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

