MECHANICAL REPAIR GENERAL SUPERVISOR

Class Code:       3731
Open Date:  04-01-16
REVISED: 04-14-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$121,166 (flat-rated)
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $99,722 to $123,881

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Mechanical Repair General Supervisor directly or through subordinate supervisor, plans, organizes, and directs a group of journey-level workers and helpers in the fabrication, installation, maintenance and repair of building mechanical systems, roll-up doors, kelly boards, boilers, generators, vessels, pumping equipment including auxiliary diesel and propane powered engines, barges and marine terminal facilities including container cranes, passenger gantries, conveyors, and construction and transportation equipment, piping systems and machinery, and transmission towers;  applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.
 
  REQUIREMENT

Two years of full-time paid experience as a Machinist Supervisor, Electrician Supervisor, Equipment Repair Supervisor, or in a class at that level supervising the fabrication, installation, maintenance and repair of power generating equipment and mechanical systems, marine, construction or transportation equipment.

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Mechanical Repair General Supervisor Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Mechanical Repair General Supervisor Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 


NOTE:


Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:	Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
				Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of: methods, processes, materials, machinery, tools, and equipment used in the installation, maintenance, and repair of construction and transportation equipment, construction facilities, floating marine and marine accessory equipment, boilers, generators, and pumping equipment, water control structures and facilities, and related electrical installations; shop and field safety practices; operating requirements of transportation and construction equipment sufficient to advise staff and ensure that equipment is in compliance with current regulatory standards; preventative maintenance methods and practices; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity and Memoranda of Understanding as they apply to subordinate personnel; supervisory principles, practices, and techniques such as delegation of authority, progressive discipline, performance evaluation, planning, organizing, directing, and staffing; and the ability to diagnose trouble and mechanical failure in machinery, transportation equipment and construction equipment; plan, layout, coordinate and direct the work of large number of employees;  conduct disciplinary investigations; plan for, direct, manage, and budget for the timely and successful completion of various projects; devise and implement improved procedures and establish and maintain work standards; write memoranda and reports which are logically arranged and incorporate correct English grammar, syntax, spelling, and sentence structure in order to explain information and make recommendations  and decisions; communicate orally on a one to one, or one to group, basis in a clear, concise, and succinct manner to individuals within the department, individuals in other City departments, other government agencies, and the public; deal tactfully and effectively with others; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

As part of their evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire.  Candidates may expect interview panel members to discuss this information during the interviews.  Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the interview panel.

At the time of the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material in response to a problem related to the duties of a Mechanical Repair General Supervisor.  This essay material will not be scored separately, but will be presented to the interview panel for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory essay may be disqualified. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their advisory essay responses.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interview will begin during the period of JUNE 6, 2016 to JUNE 17, 2016.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final score of 70% is required to be place on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3731 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04-01-16 REV 04-14-16


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

