MEDICAL ASSISTANT 
 
Class Code:       2310
Open Date:  03-09-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$39,797 to $58,150

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 

DUTIES

Under direct supervision, a Medical Assistant provides assistance to physicians and nurses in the health screening and physical examination of applicants and City employees; and performs related duties as required. 

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Completion of a medical assistant program from an accredited technical school. The program must include training in medical terminology and front and/or back office clinic operations; and
2. A current, valid American Heart Association Healthcare Provider CPR card.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
2. Applicants must list the expiration date of their CPR card in the Supplemental Questions section.
3. Applicants must submit a copy of their CPR card at the time of filing. The copy of the CPR card must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the CPR card is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it, and WILL NOT be considered further in this examination. 
4. For Requirement #1, applicants must obtain this education and training from a Board Approved Medical Assistant Certifying Organization. Please refer to related information at http://www.mbc.ca.gov/Licensees/Physicians_and_Surgeons/Medical_Assistants/
5. Applicants must submit a copy of their certificate of completion of a medical assistant program from an accredited technical school at the time of filing. The copy of the certificate of completion of a medical assistant program from an accredited technical school must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the copy of the certificate of completion of a Medical Assistant program from an accredited technical school is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it, and WILL NOT be considered further in this examination.          

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE


Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2018.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the Training and Experience Questionnaire in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from March 9, 2018 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.


SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of training and experience, wherein candidates will be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background, and personal qualifications and abilities. Emphasis will be placed on the following: Attention to Detail, Conscientiousness, Customer Service, Teamwork, Clerical Speed and Accuracy, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: medical laboratory tests, common diagnostic tests, biometric measurements, and the procedures, instruments, materials and/or equipment required to perform such tests and/or record such measurements; procedures, equipment, and supplies required to ensure sanitary, sterile and clean conditions of laboratory, medical supplies, patient examining areas, and equipment; Federal and State laws and regulations related to patient confidentiality, respiratory protection, and immunizations; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses  and clicking on Competencies under Medical Assistant.

The Training and Experience Questionnaire will be administered on-line. Candidates invited to participate in the Training and Experience Questionnaire will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to complete the on-line Training and Experience Questionnaire, and will be required to do so by the date provided in the instructions sent to them via email. Candidates that do not complete the on-line Training and Experience Questionnaire as required will not be considered further in this examination. It is anticipated that the on-line training and experience questionnaire will be administered during the period of APRIL 30, 2018 to MAY 7, 2018.

Training and Experience Questionnaires for all candidates who meet the requirements, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the candidate's Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the expert review panel. 

NOTES:	

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 2310. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  03-09-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


Class Code 2310. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .02-02-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

