METER READER
                                         
Class Code:       1611
Open Date:  08-07-15
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)


ANNUAL SALARY
 
$56,041 to $69,634; $57,503 to $71,451; $58,777 to $73,038; $60,405 to $75,042; $63,830 to $79,302

NOTES:


1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions. 
2. For information regarding reciprocity between City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 

DUTIES

A Meter Reader works outdoors; reads water and electric meters and makes accurate recordings of those readings using a hand-held computer; reports irregularities found in the field; and deals tactfully and courteously with customers in answering their inquiries and complaints regarding service.

Candidates should have good eyesight and must be in good physical condition since Meter Readers work alone in the field; walk in excess of seven miles per day in hilly and flat terrain; squat and bend approximately 150 times per day; climb multiple flights of stairs; carry approximately 10 pounds of equipment all day; lift and slide water meter lids weighing approximately 10 to 25 pounds on a regular basis; work in all types of inclement weather, including rain and extreme heat; must contend with hostile dogs; and frequently must read meters under unfavorable conditions such as through a screen in poor light, or at a distance using a scope or mirror; the ability to memorize various alpha and numeric codes is especially desired; may work overtime, including weekends as scheduled.

REQUIREMENT

Six (6) months of full-time paid experience in reading meters for a utility.

NOTES:

1. Candidates must achieve a passing score in the qualifying multiple-choice written test in order to be called for subsequent portions of the examination.
2. Applicants who lack two months or less of the above required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. After appointment, a Meter Reader may be required to furnish an automobile, properly insured, for use in City service. Mileage will be paid according to established rates.
4. A valid California driver's license and a good driving record are required. Applicants must have a driving record free of at-fault accidents and/or moving violations within the last year. Applicants who have three or more moving violations or at-fault accidents, or any combination of moving violations and at-fault accidents totaling three or more within the last five years, will be disqualified and will not be eligible for hire.
5. See the corresponding "Job Preview" for additional information regarding the duties of a Meter Reader. The Job Preview is available on-line within the Supplemental Questions section of the job posting.

WHERE TO APPLY 

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins also are available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Filing may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications are received. For administrative purposes, filing may close periodically and reopen the following workday. 

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received.  Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from August 7, 2015 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
                                        Performance Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying multiple-choice written test and a performance test. In the qualifying written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, candidates may be examined for the ability to: accurately obtain water and electric meter readings; convert readings to decimals; use a coding system; read maps; follow geographical directions; safely operate a motor vehicle; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

The first qualifying written test will be administered in a single half-day session on SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2015 in Los Angeles. Candidates will be notified later by mail of the time and location of the written test. Additional test dates may be added as needed.

Passing Score for Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

The examination score will be based entirely on the performance test. In the performance test, candidates may be examined for the endurance necessary to successfully walk in a variety of terrains for up to 7 miles; and the flexibility, balance and coordination needed to lift and slide water meter lids of various weights ranging from 10 to 25 pounds; ability to accurately and consistently memorize and record various alpha and numeric codes; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Qualified applicants will be scheduled for the qualifying multiple-choice test, in accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2. The performance test will be scheduled periodically based on the Department of Water and Power's hiring needs. Candidates who attain a passing score in the qualifying multiple-choice test will be scheduled to take the performance test in the order that applications were received. Therefore, not all candidates will be scheduled for a performance test. Those candidates who are scheduled for the performance test will be notified by mail of the date, time and location of the performance test.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. Candidates may take the examination only once during the administration of this examination. Names may be removed from the open competitive eligible list after six (6) months.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% in the performance portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. Your rank on the employment list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of the examination are merged onto one list.

Notice: 

 If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

	
THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 1611 CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .08-07-15


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


