PAINTER

Class Code:       3423
Open Date:  09-21-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$82,726 (flat-rated) and $86,620 (flat-rated)
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $91,976 (flat-rated) and $99,576 (flat-rated)

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Painter prepares surfaces by hand, machine, waterblast and sandblast, and mixes, matches, and applies paints and related materials by brush, roller, or spray equipment (airless, conventional, and HVLP) to machinery, equipment, furniture, and the interior and exterior of buildings, pipelines, tanks, and other structures, including boats and marine equipment; may be required to remove or abate lead coatings and be familiar with the treatment and handling of hazardous waste; estimates materials for jobs; and does related duties.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Completion of a recognized apprenticeship as a painter; or
2. 	Five years of full-time paid painting experience. 

Completion of a painter program at an accredited institution may be substituted for each year of experience lacking up to a maximum of two years.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Some positions may require a valid California Class A and/or Class B driver's license and valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles, prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). Candidates will be asked to submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1808.1 prior to appointment.
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 must submit proof of completion of a recognized apprenticeship program at the time of filing. The requested document must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the document is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it, and WILL NOT be considered further in this examination.
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 who are substituting education for experience must submit proof of completion of a painter program at the time of filing. The requested document must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the document is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it, and WILL NOT be considered further in this examination.
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
5. Some positions may require an aerial lift certification prior to the completion of the probationary period.
6. Some positions at the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power require work on and in close proximity to high voltage electrical equipment.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the weighted multiple-choice test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Multiple-Choice Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of a weighted multiple-choice test administered and proctored on-line. In the on-line multiple-choice test, the following competencies may be evaluated: Mathematics, Teamwork, Equipment Operation, including the operation of hydraulic equipment, such as paint sprayers, scissor lift, and boom lift used to apply paint to surfaces at elevated heights; Safety Focus, including: safety procedures, regulations, and restrictions as required by the California Occupational Safety and Health Administration, South Coast Air Quality Management District, Environmental Protection Act, and California Department of Toxic Substances Control, including procedures necessary when using paints and coatings containing volatile organic compounds, handling and disposing of hazardous or toxic wastes, and working near energized electrical equipment or with toxic and flammable materials; safety procedures and personal protective equipment required when preparing surfaces and applying paint; safety requirements that must be adhered to when using stepladders, extension ladders, and scaffolds; safety procedures required when using high pressure equipment for the preparation of surfaces and application of paint; equipment used to ventilate an area during and/or after painting; and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: protective and decorative coverings, and the procedures used to mix and apply them; methods, tools, and materials used to prepare a wide variety of surfaces for painting; methods, tools, and equipment used to apply paint or protective coatings to a wide variety of surfaces; other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Painter.

The weighted multiple-choice test will be proctored and administered on-line during a single session. Candidates invited to participate in the on-line multiple-choice test will be able to take the test from any location using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the dates and specific steps on how to take the multiple-choice test on-line. It is anticipated that the remote proctored multiple-choice test will be held in NOVEMBER 2018. Candidates who do not complete and submit the remote proctored multiple-choice test on-line using a computer by the specified date and time will not be considered further in this examination. 

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. Based on City policy, before being hired in this position, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol-screening test.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
7. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3423 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09-21-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

