PARKING ATTENDANT

Class Code:       3530
  Open Date:  04-27-18
            (Exam Open to All, Including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$30,923 to $38,419 and $32,426 to $40,277

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
3. Higher salary for night work.

DUTIES

A Parking Attendant directs cars parking in City-owned parking facilities; sells parking tickets to patrons parking in City-owned commercial parking lots; and performs light non-mechanical vehicle servicing such as washing, cleaning, refueling, and parking City vehicles.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Eighteen months of full-time paid experience as a Vocational Worker with the City of Los Angeles, Department of General Services, directing cars parking in City-owned parking facilities, and selling parking tickets to patrons parking in City-owned commercial parking lots; and 
2. A letter of recommendation from the personnel office of the Department of General Services indicating a willingness to hire you as a Parking Attendant attached at the time of filing.

PROCESS NOTES

1. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
2.  Applicants must submit a letter of recommendation from the personnel office of the Department of General Services indicating a willingness to hire you as a Parking Attendant at the time of filing. The copy of the letter must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the letter is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit 
the letter at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations.


NOTE:


Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 10, 2018.


SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Application Review . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of a review by Personnel Department staff of the candidate's application to ensure that the candidate meets the minimum qualifications for the class as stated in the Requirements section of this bulletin. 
	
NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.
 
THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.	
Class Code 3530. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .04-27-18


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to:  http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

