PARK SERVICES ATTENDANT

   Class Code:       2412
 Open Date:  03-22-19
                                              (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$32,635 to $42,824 and $41,697 to $60,969

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Park Services Attendant serves the public at, or operates, amusement, tennis reservation, lodge, auditorium, information booth or service facilities at City parks or recreational areas; or supervises such work in a lead capacity.

NOTE:

Some Park Services Attendants will be required to work weekends, evenings and holidays and can be reassigned to any work location in the City. They may be required to work overtime and in bad weather.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

600 hours with the City of Los Angeles as an Assistant Park Services Attendant, Swimming Pool Clerk, Museum Guide, Park Activity Monitor or Recreation Assistant.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
2. Applicants must submit with their on-line application a "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form with the required signatures, confirming their qualifying experience. The VWE form should indicate the type of work performed and the amount of time spent performing such work. This form may be obtained on-line at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf. Applicants may attach the completed VWE form to their on-line application at the time of filing, or will have seven (7) calendar days from the on-line submission date to email a copy of their completed VWE form, including the required signatures, to per.appdocs@lacity.org. The subject line of your email must include the exam title, your name and indicate it is a VWE. In the body of your email, you must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number and contact phone number. Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training. Only persons possessing the following at the time of filing may be considered for appointment to fill such positions:

The ability to speak or write a language other than English.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL 4, 2019.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the multiple-choice test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Multiple-Choice Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of a weighted multiple-choice test. In the multiple-choice test, candidates may be examined for the knowledge of: arithmetic sufficient to add, subtract, and multiply with speed and accuracy sufficient to reconcile accounts and cash balances; types of acceptable personal identification such as passport, drivers' license, and military identification; cash and check handling procedures such as cash drops, bank deposits, change fund process, and transmittal sheet process; and the ability to sort cash into proper denominations; operate a point-of-sale system; accurately and rapidly compare cash out reports to cash on hand; read materials such as supervisors' instructions, job orders, or notes and memoranda; pay attention to detail sufficient to detect safety hazards in order to provide safe conditions for patrons; perform tasks independently and with minimal supervision; and organize, assign, and demonstrate work methods to part-time employees including scheduling, assigning, auditing subordinates, and preparing performance report of part-time employees for supervisor review; communicate orally in an effective, clear, and concise manner; deal tactfully and effectively with other employees and the public; diffuse irate patrons sufficient to alleviate dissatisfaction or infraction of rules at facilities; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

The multiple-choice test will be proctored and administered on-line during a single session. Candidates invited to participate in the on-line multiple-choice test will be able to take the test as instructed from a remote location using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the dates and specific steps on how to take the multiple-choice test on-line. It is anticipated that the remote proctored multiple-choice test will be administered between MONDAY, JUNE 3, 2019 and MONDAY, JUNE 10, 2019. Candidates who do not complete and submit the remote proctored multiple-choice test on-line using a computer by the specified date and time will not be considered further in this examination.

FAQs for on-line testing is available at http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess. Candidates who do not have the required equipment may have the option to take the multiple-choice test onsite at a City facility.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the multiple-choice test will not be subject to candidate inspection. 
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position. All City employees are required to be Disaster Service Workers.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 2412. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03-22-19

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

