PERSONNEL DIRECTOR

Class Code:       1714
Open Date:  05-04-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$110,225 to $161,151; $116,280 to $170,004; and $125,488 to $183,472 

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 

DUTIES

A Personnel Director directs, develops, implements, and manages a comprehensive human resources program including support programs, policies, procedures, and systems which ensure compliance with local, state, and federal laws; advises department management or the appointing authority on personnel and related matters, and manages the organizational unit responsible for personnel functions in a City department; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid professional personnel administrative experience as a Senior Personnel Analyst II or in a position at that level, in a centralized staff agency or operating department personnel office.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional", non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 17, 2018.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:	Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%
	
The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of training and experience, wherein candidates will be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background and personal qualifications and abilities. Emphasis will be placed on the following: Judgment and Decision Making, Customer Service, Flexibility, Resolves Conflict, Process Improvement, Leadership, Strategic Planning, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: public personnel administration laws, rules, and regulations such as the Employee Relations Ordinance, Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA), and Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) related to the administration of a comprehensive human resources program; human resources functions such as training, discipline, employee benefits, selection, and Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO); key factors associated with the budget processes and expenditure programs; City's classification system; City Charter provisions, Civil Service Commission rules and policies, Employee Relations Ordinance, Memoranda of Understanding, City Attorney opinions and other City policies, rules, and regulations related to personnel administration; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Personnel Director. 

The Training and Experience Questionnaire will be administered on-line. Applicants invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps needed to complete the on-line Training and Experience Questionnaire. Applicants will be required to complete the on-line Training and Experience Questionnaire between MAY 29, 2018 and JUNE 5, 2018. Additional instructions will be sent via e-mail. Applicants who fail to complete the on-line Training and Experience Questionnaire as instructed may be disqualified.

Training and Experience Questionnaires for all candidates who meet the requirements will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the candidate's Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the expert review panel.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
6. Candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of continuous service in those classes which provide qualifying experience for this position. A maximum of one point will be added to the score of those candidates.
7. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1714. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .05-04-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


