PERSONNEL RESEARCH ANALYST

Class Code:       1739
Open Date:  11-30-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$73,080 to $106,842 and $86,338 to $126,198

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Personnel Research Analyst performs specific technical research in a broad range of personnel selection activities; carries out content and criterion validation studies; conducts detailed job analyses; develops and administers selection tests; performs complete statistical and data analyses; writes a variety of statistical and narrative reports; and applies professional selection testing practices and the principles of equal employment opportunity to personnel selection and research.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. A Ph.D. degree in Industrial/Organizational Psychology or Psychometrics from an accredited college or university; or
2. A master's degree in Industrial/Organizational Psychology or Psychometrics from an accredited college or university; and one year of full-time paid professional experience in personnel research relating to employee selection or test validation; or 
3. A bachelor's degree in Psychology from an accredited college or university, which includes the completion of 3 semester or 4 quarter units in each of the following areas: advanced statistics, research design, and psychological measurement; and three years of full-time paid professional experience in personnel research relating to employee selection or test validation.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants lacking six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Ph.D. and Master's degree applicants who are within six months of obtaining their degrees may apply. However, applicants cannot be appointed until the full education requirement is met.
3. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
4. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree. 
5. Applicants must list their school name and location, type of degree earned and major in the Education Section of the on-line City Application. Applicants who fail to provide this information on their application will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
6. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
7. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, DECEMBER 13, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the qualifying multiple-choice test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates. 


SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Multiple-choice Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying
		                    Evaluation of Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying multiple-choice test administered on-line and an evaluation of training and experience. In the qualifying multiple-choice test, the following competencies may be evaluated: Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: research principles and methods to conduct research studies including hypothesis formation, appropriate sampling, data collection, analysis, and interpretation; content, criterion, and construct validation approaches; calculations and interpretation of descriptive and inferential statistics, including mean, median, mode, standard deviation, t-tests, ANOVA, and multiple regression; the interpretation and meaning of statistical concepts, such as normal distribution and sampling error; job analysis objectives and principles including task and competency identification, linkages, and the application of job analysis results to various selection methods and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

The qualifying multiple-choice test will be administered on-line during a single session. Candidates invited to participate in the qualifying on-line multiple-choice test will be able to take the test from a remote location using a computer with a reliable internet connection. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the dates and specific steps on how to take the qualifying multiple-choice test on-line. It is anticipated that the qualifying multiple-choice test will be administered between TUESDAY, DECEMBER 18, 2018 and MONDAY, DECEMBER 24, 2018. Candidates who do not complete and submit the qualifying multiple-choice test on-line using a computer by the specified date and time will not be considered further in this examination.

Passing Score for the Qualifying Multiple-Choice Test

The passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice test may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying multiple-choice test in order for their Training and Experience Questionnaire to be submitted to the expert review panel for evaluation.

Training and Experience Questionnaires and City employment applications for all candidates who meet the requirements and achieve a passing score on the qualifying multiple-choice test will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the candidate's City application and Training and Experience Questionnaire.

The examination score will be based entirely on an evaluation of training and experience wherein candidates will be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background and personal qualifications and abilities. Emphasis will be placed on the following: Analytical Ability, Self-Management, Conscientiousness, Fact Finding, Interpersonal Skills, Written Communication, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: research principles and methods to conduct and interpret a literature review and conduct research studies, including hypothesis formation, appropriate sampling, data collection, analysis, and interpretation; content, criterion, and construct validation approaches; calculations and interpretation of descriptive and inferential statistics, including mean, median, mode, standard deviation, t-tests, ANOVA, and multiple regression; the interpretation and meaning of statistical concepts, such as normal distribution and sampling error; how to read, interpret, and create graphs, charts, and tables; the application of quantitative and qualitative data in order to make inferences and draw conclusions; computer based statistical packages, such as SPSS, SAS, and Excel sufficient to conduct statistical analyses; job analysis objectives and principles including task and competency identification, linkages, and the application of job analysis results to various selection methods; item analysis interpretation in order to interpret reliability, validity, and adverse impact and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional job analysis information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Personnel Research Analyst. FAQs for on-line testing is available at http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum requirements are met.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1739 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11-30-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

