PILE DRIVER WORKER

Class Code: 3553
Open Date: 04-14-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$85,190 and $93,667 (flat-rated)

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Pile Driver Worker does a variety of specialized manual tasks in connection with the maintenance, repair, and operation of pile driver equipment on water; wraps piling with plastic film; or supervises such work.


NOTE:

Most of the pile driver work is performed from a floating barge. Hazards involved are those normally associated with work around heavy  pneumatic, hydraulic, diesel, and mechanical equipment above ground and over water.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Completion of a recognized four-year apprenticeship as a pile driver worker. Candidates must submit an apprenticeship certificate at the time of filing.

PROCESS NOTES

1. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
2. Applicants must submit a copy of their apprenticeship certificate. Applicants must attach a copy of the Apprenticeship Certificate to the online application at the time of filing. The certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the certificate. Applicants who fail to submit the Apprentice Certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.


SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions. Only persons possessing the following may be considered for appointment to fill such positions.

1. A valid certification from the National Commission for the Certification of Crane Operations (NCCCO) is required at the time of filing. Applicants wishing to be considered for the Selective Certification #1 must attach a copy of their Certificate from the NCCCO to the online application at the time of filing. The certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and the applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the certificate. Applicants who fail to submit the applicable certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered for the Selective Certification.
2. A valid California Class B (or A) driver's license and valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles is required at time of filing. Applicants wishing to be considered for the Selective Certification #2 must specify the license, including issue date and expiration date in the Special License section on the on-line application.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations.                                                                    

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have enough time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Interview . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the candidate's experience and training as they relate to the knowledge of:  uses of bolts to secure piles; repair procedures for docks; techniques for maintaining wrenches, chainsaws, and airpowered drills; rigging procedures; boats and barge terminology; pile driving practices; techniques for pile wrapping; uses of variety of hammers, slicks, and wrenches; techniques for securing of floating barges; tide sheets and the influences of tides; how to tie a variety of knots; winches; lines and spools; hand hoisting signals approved by the California Division of Industrial Safety; safety practices for use of creosote; the ability to: use a torch; use pee-vee and hooks to manipulate piles which are in and out of the water; use a chain saw; use an axe for framing; use an airpowered drill; read prints and plans related to pile and other dock construction; record information legibly and accurately; estimate kind and amount of material needed for a plan; communicate with others on a one-to-one basis for the purpose of giving and receiving information; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.
Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JUNE 19, 2017 to JUNE 30, 2017.

NOTES:
1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
6. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidate's City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that minimum qualifications have been met.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
	
NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3553. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .04-14-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


Class Code 3553. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .04-14-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


