



PIPEFITTER SUPERVISOR
                                                                                                       Class Code:       3438
                                                                                                       Open Date:  08-12-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$107,886 (flat-rated)

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Pipefitter Supervisor supervises Pipefitters and occasional helpers from other classes engaged in the installation, replacement, maintenance, and repair of industrial steam, oil, air, gas, water, steam heating, and other pipe systems, including high pressure and high temperature systems.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Four years of full-time paid journey-level experience involving the installation of high pressure and high temperature piping systems.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. In order to be considered "journey-level," applicants must either complete a recognized apprenticeship or have six years of full-time paid experience performing installation, replacement, maintenance and repair of industrial steam, oil, air, gas, water, steam heating and other pipe systems, including high pressure and high temperature systems.
4. Based on pipeline safety laws, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs  for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: judgment and decision making, safety focus, space visualization, supervision, oral communication, project management, and job knowledge, including knowledge of: correct installation and assembly, functions, and operating principles of valves and fittings, ball valves, and gate valves sufficient to supervise crewmembers and/or subordinates performing this work, plan and lay out piping systems according to industry standards such as the Uniform Mechanical Code, American Waterworks Association, and American Society of Mechanical Engineers Section, and make correct estimates on the time and materials needed to complete piping system jobs; tools, materials, and methods used in electric and acetylene welding and cutting of ferrous and non-ferrous metals in high pressure, high temperature, and other piping systems such as process piping and fuel gas piping sufficient to use the proper tools to weld various types of metals into pipes; the codes/rules contained in the American Society of Mechanical Engineers Section IX and power piping codes and regulations sufficient to accurately determine if crewmembers and/or subordinates are building pipefitting assemblies according to applicable regulations and specifications; rigging practices such as preparing slings and wire rope and using cranes and other hoisting devices such as chain falls sufficient to safely and efficiently lift and move piping, valves, fixtures, and equipment such as pumps, cooling towers, and air conditioning equipment to predesignated locations; drafting tools such as t-square, 30/60 triangle, and drafting templates sufficient to create detailed sketches of work to be performed by crewmembers and/or subordinates; blueprints and other drawings such as isometric drawings and piping and equipment schematics sufficient to interpret them and identify key details such as type and size of piping and valve location for the installation, replacement, maintenance, and repair of pipe systems; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/jobanalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Pipefitter Supervisor.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of OCTOBER 11, 2016 to OCTOBER 21, 2016.  

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
8. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidate's employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that minimum requirements are met. 

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3438 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08-12-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

