PLUMBER SUPERVISOR

Class Code:      3446
Open Date:  10-05-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$108,482 (flat-rated)
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $115,048 (flat-rated).

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Plumber Supervisor assigns, reviews and evaluates the work of Senior Plumbers, Plumbers and helpers engaged in the layout, installation, repair, and maintenance of sanitary and industrial plumbing systems, process piping and fuel dispensing systems, including air, gas, water, steam, industrial waste, gasoline and oil pipelines; determines procedures and methods to use in installing plumbing systems; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Four years of full-time paid experience as a journey-level plumber; and
2. A valid Certificate of Qualification as a journey-level plumber issued by the City of Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants must attach a copy of their Certificate of Qualification to the on-line application before the application is submitted. If the Certificate is attached after the on-line application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and the applicants will not be credited with having submitted the Certificate. Applicants who fail to submit the Certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the on-line application will not be considered further in the examination.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for the examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. A valid California's driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
4. A certificate for Backflow Prevention Device Tester issued by the Los Angeles County Health Department may be required for some positions.
5. A valid certification for Chief's Regulation #4 Certified Tester issued by the Los Angeles Fire Department may be required for some positions.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Exams.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2018.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

Your examination score will be based entirely on an evaluation of your professional and personal qualifications. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on an adequacy of the candidate's experience, training, education and personal qualifications as they have provided the background necessary to perform the duties of a Plumber Supervisor including the knowledge of: methods for repairing and maintaining pipe systems sufficient to comply with codes, review work, and provide informal training to employees; methods for joining pipe or tubing; methods and materials used in supporting, hanging, or backfilling pipe installations; methods for protecting pipe installations from electrolysis sufficient to inspect for adequate cathodic protection; installation, repair, and maintenance methods sufficient to inspect work, provide assistance, and ensure conformance to codes; control devices sufficient to diagnose system problems; testing procedures to ensure accurate installation; safe work practices, safety precautions, and safety hazards; laws, ordinances, codes and regulations sufficient to identify code violations, explain codes and regulations, and ensure code compliance; budget and procurement procedures; departmental policies and procedures such as administrative or operating manuals, working procedures, administrative orders and directives, bulletins, and newsletters; supervisory principles and techniques relating to assigning, reviewing, and evaluating work of subordinate employees; counseling, disciplining and developing employees, and Equal Employment Opportunity; and the ability to calculate water flow rates according to pipe sizes, elevation, and pressure; lay out plumbing system sufficient to plan, assign, and review the work performed by subordinate workers; use computer software; analyze complaints and problems to assess the situation and make recommendations for solutions; analyze technical problems sufficient to define the problem and make recommendations for solutions; accurately estimate total cost, time, material, equipment, and labor needed to perform work assignments; think creatively; plan, organize, coordinate, and schedule activities to effectively utilize personnel, materials and equipment; set priorities; communicate orally sufficient to explain complex procedures and technical information to technical or non-technical personnel; communicate effectively to provide or obtain information accurately; interact effectively and tactfully with people by demonstrating persuasiveness, assertiveness, and willingness to compromise; exercise independent judgment to make decisions regarding work activities; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of DECEMBER 10, 2018 to DECEMBER 21, 2018.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3446 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-05-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 

