PLUMBING INSPECTOR

Class Code:       4231
Open Date:  04-28-17
Revised: 05-11-17
(Exam Open to All, Including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY                                                                     

$78,696 to $95,171			

NOTE:	

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Plumbing Inspector inspects plumbing installations for conformance to the provisions of pertinent laws and/or construction specifications and assists in training other employees as required.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Four years of full-time paid experience as a plumbing inspector with work in both residential and commercial plumbing installations; or
2. Successful completion of a recognized plumbing apprenticeship program and four years of full-time paid experience with work in both residential and commercial plumbing installations; or
3. Nine years of full-time paid plumbing experience with work in both residential and commercial plumbing installations.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 must attach a copy of their Apprenticeship Certificate to the online application at the time of filing. The certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted.  If the certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the certificate. Applicants who fail to submit the certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination. 
4. A valid City of Los Angeles Journey-level Plumbers license is required prior to appointment.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE


Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 18, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from April 28, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following: 

Examination Weight:		Multiple-Choice Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of a weighted multiple-choice test administered and proctored online. In the online multiple-choice test the following competencies may be evaluated: Mathematics, Judgement and Decision Making, Customer Service, Safety Focus including knowledge of: Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) safety regulations related to work on a construction site such as ladder safety, fall protection, confined space protection and personal protective equipment, Job Knowledge including knowledge of: The City of Los Angeles Plumbing Code regulations including those related to permits, fixtures, water distribution, sewers, gas piping, water heaters, backflow protection, general design, and sanitation requirements; various types of pipe materials such as copper, cast iron, and polyvinyl chloride (PVC), pipe size requirements and functions; symbols and measurements used in plumbing plans in order to read and interpret plumbing plans; terminology commonly used in the plumbing industry; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Plumbing Inspector.

The multiple-choice test will be proctored and administered on-line during a single session. Candidates invited to participate in the online multiple-choice test will be required to self-schedule themselves on-line for a specific date and time. The online multiple-choice test may be taken from any location. Candidates will be required to take the multiple-choice test using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific dates and steps on how to self-schedule themselves and take the multiple-choice test on-line. It is anticipated that candidates will be able to take the multiple-choice test online starting SATURDAY, JUNE 24, 2017 THROUGH SATURDAY, JULY 1, 2017. Candidates who do not complete and submit the multiple-choice test online by SATURDAY, JULY 1, 2017 at 11:59 p.m., Pacific Standard Time, will not be considered further in this examination.

NOTES:

1 		This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the multiple-choice test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates. 
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN 
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 4231 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04-28-17 REV 05-11-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

