PORT ELECTRICAL MECHANIC SUPERVISOR

Class Code:       3759
Open Date:  03-18-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
 
ANNUAL SALARY

$119,172 (flat-rated)

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Port Electrical Mechanic Supervisor assigns, reviews and evaluates the work of journey-level craft employees engaged in electrical, mechanical, electronic, welding and rigging maintenance, testing, and repair work on de-energized and energized high voltage electrical conductors, wharf-side high voltage electrical equipment, container cranes, drawbridges, and other related marine terminal and Harbor Department structures and equipment; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force and fulfills Equal Employment Opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS

Four years of full-time paid journey-level experience as a Port Electrical Mechanic performing maintenance and repair of marine terminal equipment.

NOTES: 

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met 
2. A valid designation as a Port of Los Angeles Qualified Electrical Worker is required at the time of appointment.
3. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. It is anticipated that for future bulletins, the requirement will be "two years of full-time paid experience as a Senior Port Electrical Mechanic."

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs  for Promotional Examinations.

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be completed at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination. 



APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received on-line by THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from March 18, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.


SELECTION PROCESS 
	
Examination Weight:   Essay. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
                                       Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the evaluation of the nature and adequacy of the candidate's experience, training, and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of: common causes of accidents and malfunctions of low and high voltage equipment systems; procedures, materials and tools used for low and high voltage equipment maintenance and repair; wire ropes; generators and electric motors; high voltage electrical equipment; hydraulic systems; mechanical test equipment and gages; safe use of arc, oxy-acetylene, mig, and tig welding equipment; welding including types of welding rod for various uses, and characteristics of a good weld; rigging practices including placement of slings; arithmetic sufficient to calculate quantities of materials and estimated work time; electrical theory sufficient to handle and to connect electrical; safety principles and regulations; lockout and tag out procedures; supervisory principles and techniques; Equal Employment Opportunity policies; and the ability to: use circuit diagrams or plans; plan routine inspection and maintenance done at appropriate intervals for each type of equipment; use information received from Port Electrical Mechanics reports and other reports of trouble to assign priorities to various jobs needing attention in addition to the normal schedule; communicate orally sufficient to discuss work assignments, job requirements, and other information with supervisors and coworkers; write sufficient to obtain or to provide information; identify special training needs and/or limitations of subordinates and taking action such as reassigning work and/or scheduling training to make the most effective use of personnel; and other knowledge, skills, and abilities.

At the time of the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material relating to the duties of a Port Electrical Mechanic Supervisor. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory essay may be disqualified. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their advisory essay response.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of MAY 9, 2016 to MAY 20, 2016.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered open candidates.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. A final average score of 70% or above is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credit, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
8. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3759 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03-18-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


