



PORT ELECTRICAL MECHANIC
Class Code:       3758
Open Date:  02-26-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
 
ANNUAL SALARY

$102,687 (flat-rated)

NOTES:

1. Higher salaries are paid for night work. 
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Port Electrical Mechanic performs all skilled electrical, mechanical, electronic, welding and rigging maintenance and repair work on de-energized and energized high voltage electrical conductors, wharf-side high voltage electrical power connections, barge-mounted high voltage electrical equipment, container cranes, drawbridges, and other Harbor Department structures and equipment; and performs related duties as a designated Qualified Electrical Worker.

NOTE:	

Port Electrical Mechanics may be required to work evenings and weekends.

REQUIREMENTS

1.	Completion of a recognized apprenticeship or attainment of journey-level status in an electrical or mechanical trade and one (1) year of full time paid experience with the Port of Los Angeles performing inspections, maintenance, and repairs of high voltage electrical systems, marine terminal structures, and equipment; or
2. Seven years of full-time paid experience with the Port of Los Angeles as an Electrical Craft Helper or Mechanical Helper, assisting with inspections, maintenance, and repair of high voltage electrical systems, marine terminal structures, and equipment; or
3. Seven years of full-time paid experience as an electrical mechanic performing inspections, maintenance, and repairs on high voltage electrical systems, marine terminal structures, and equipment.

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A license as a certified Welder for Structural Steel issued by the City of Los Angeles, Department of Building and Safety, may be required prior to the completion of the probationary period.
3. In addition to answering the regular City application supplemental questions, each applicant is required to complete the Port Electrical Mechanic Training and Experience Questionnaire at the time of filing.  The Port Electrical Mechanic Training and Experience Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Question section of the City application.  Applicants who fail to complete the Training and Experience Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
4. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 must submit proof of completion of a recognized apprenticeship program indicated in Requirement #1. Applicants must attach a copy of the proof of completion to the on-line application at the time of filing. The requested document must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the document(s) is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the documents. Applicants who fail to submit the document(s) at the time of filing by not attaching it to the on-line application will not be considered further in this examination.
5. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
6. Some positions may require a valid California Class B driver's license prior to appointment.  For these positions, applicants must submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1808.1 and valid medical certificate. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
7. Some positions may require a license to operate a forklift or crane.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs  for Promotional Examinations.
NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be completed at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Training and Experience Questionnaires must be received on-line by THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be evaluated on their training and experience in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from February 26, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS 
	
Examination Weight:  Evaluation of Training and Experience Questionnaire  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of an evaluation of training and experience, wherein candidates will be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background and personal qualifications and abilities. Emphasis will be placed on the following: judgment and decision making, safety focus, mechanical aptitude, electrical understanding, teamwork, written communication, and job knowledge including knowledge of: the methods used to deenergize and disconnect motors, generators, and transformers to safely and efficiently complete marine equipment repair and maintenance jobs; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/JobAnalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Port Electrical Mechanic.

Training and Experience Questionnaires and City employment applications for all candidates meeting the minimum requirements will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation.  The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the candidate's City application and Training and Experience Questionnaire.

NOTES:

1.	This examination is based on a validation study.
2.	Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3.	The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credit, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
4.	You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5.	As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
6.	 A final average score of 70% or above is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7.	 Based on City policy, before being hired in this position, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol-screening test.
8.	In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
9.	If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidate's employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that minimum requirements are met. 

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3758 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 02-26-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


