POWER SHOVEL OPERATOR
Class Code:         3558
Open Date:    06-24-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$91,036 (flat-rated)
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $70,135 (flat-rated); $70,386 (flat-rated); $70,741 (flat-rated); $71,075 (flat-rated); $76,692 to $95,275; and $78,132 to $97,092.

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. For those salaries with a range, the range covers multiple pay grades within the class. 
4. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Power Shovel Operator operates cranes, shovels, Gradalls, and similar rotating, boom-type excavating and hoisting equipment in connection with varied construction and maintenance activities; and makes running repairs and adjustments to such equipment.

REQUIREMENTS

1. A valid California Class A driver's license and valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles; and
2. Two years of full-time paid experience in operating rotating, boom-type shovels and excavators, draglines, clamshells, pile drivers, or heavy duty cranes on large-scale construction operations; or 
3. Three years of full-time paid experience as a Heavy Duty Truck Operator or in a class at that level that provides experience assisting in the operation, maintenance, and minor repair of a heavy power crane, shovel, or Gradall.

Any combination of the experience in Requirements 2 and 3 totaling at least three years may be substituted for total years of experience.

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Candidates will be asked to submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVS Section 1808.1 prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
3. In addition to the regular City application, applicants using City experience MUST submit a Los Angeles "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form, signed by their supervisor, which must indicate the percentage of time performing the work that is claimed as qualifying experience.  The VWE form may be obtained on-line at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf. Applicants may attach the completed VWE form to their on-line application at the time of filing or will have 7 calendar days from the submittal of their on-line application to deliver the VWE form to the Personnel Department at 700 E. Temple Street, Room 100, Los Angeles, CA 90012. Applicants who fail to submit a copy of their VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
4. As auxiliary assignments, some departments may require Passenger, Tanker and Hazardous Material Endorsements issued by the Department of Motor Vehicles for occasional operation of large tractors, loaders, and similar construction and maintenance equipment.


SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training in one or more of the following areas. Only persons possessing the following at the time of filing may be considered for appointment to fill such positions. 

A.     A valid National Commission for the Certification of Crane Operators Certificate (NCCCO), or equivalent, for the operation of one or more of the following:
	1. Lattice Book Truck (LBT)
	2. Lattice Boom Crawler Crane (LBC)
	3. Telescopic Boom Crane-Swing Cab (TLL)
	4. Telescopic Boom Crane-Fixed Cab (TSS)
	5. Overhead Crane
	6. Articulating Boom Crane

B.     Signal Person and/or Rigging qualification or certification per Cal-OSHA requirements.

C.     Three years of full-time paid experience operating a barge mounted conventional derrick crane performing pile driving operations
         utilizing a flying hammer style rig. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from June 24, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 
	
SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Qualifying
                                           Performance Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying multiple-choice test administered on a computer and a performance test.  In the qualifying multiple-choice test, the following competencies may be evaluated: Reading Comprehension, Mathematics, Safety Focus, Teamwork, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: specific work conditions that may affect the safe completion of a job, such as overhanging wires, voltage to distance requirements, and trees; various types of equipment, such as Gradalls, excavators, hydro cranes, or lattice boom cranes in order to properly operate the equipment and determine which can be used to safely complete a job; load charts and sheave diagrams sufficient to determine if a crane has the rated capacity to safely conduct a job; safety devices of a crane; hand and horn signals; boom attachments and hooks for hoisting loads; proper procedures of rigging a load for hoisting; various tools, such as wrenches, sledge hammers, punches and grease guns, used to change attachments or maintain equipment; correct procedures to remove damaged load line cable and replace it; lubrication points, hydraulic fluid levels and maintenance intervals sufficient to properly maintain equipment; various problems that commonly occur with excavating and hoisting equipment; grading methods, such as cutting, filing, sloping and benching; the meaning of various markings used on survey stakes; California Vehicle Code, Title 13 and California Highway Patrol restrictions as they relate to transporting equipment to/from job site, and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/jobanalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Power Shovel Operator.




Passing Score for Qualifying Multiple-Choice Test

The passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice test may be set either at, above, or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying multiple-choice test in order to be scheduled for the performance test.

Your examination score will be based entirely on a demonstration of job knowledge by performance. In the examination, candidates will be assessed on Safety Focus, Equipment Operation, Listening, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: various types of equipment, such as Gradalls, excavators, hydro cranes, or lattice boom cranes in order to properly operate the equipment and determine which can be used to safely complete a job; grading methods, such as cutting, filing, sloping and benching; the meaning of various markings used on survey stakes; hand and horn signals, and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. Candidates who operate the equipment in an unsafe manner will be disqualified and considered to have failed the examination.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/jobanalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Power Shovel Operator.

The qualifying multiple-choice test will be administered on a computer during a single half-day session held on SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2016. Candidates invited to participate in the qualifying multiple-choice test will be required to self-schedule themselves for a specific time and location. The testing locations will be available throughout the Los Angeles Metropolitan area and within and outside the state of California. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to self-schedule themselves, and will be required to do so by MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2016. Candidates that do not self-schedule themselves within the required time will not be considered further in this examination.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20 the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.  
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.  
4. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
5. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
6. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
8. Based on City Policy, before being hired in this position, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol-screening test.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3558 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06-24-16


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

