
PRINCIPAL DEPUTY CONTROLLER
Class Code:       9653
Open Date:  03-28-14
						
ANNUAL SALARY

$145,867 to $181,217

DUTIES

A Principal Deputy Controller serves in the Office of the Controller as the top operations accounting employee for the City of Los Angeles and provides oversight to all City accounting operations with a total budget of over $20 billion. The position is responsible for the day-to-day operations for the City's Accounting and Disbursement systems, including but not limited to: overseeing the bi-weekly payroll for over 45,000 employees with an average total bi-weekly expenditure of over $131 million; overseeing the review, approval, and disbursement of all payments with an average annual expenditure of over $5 billion; proposing policy changes on financial and accounting matters and making recommendations to the Controller; overseeing Citywide accounting training; and overseeing the City's fund accounting including the set-up and control of the City's budgetary appropriations and funds. The position directs the activities of the Controller's Office in the absence of the Controller and Chief Deputy Controller; applies sound supervisory and management principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS

1. A bachelor's degree from a recognized four-year college in accounting, business administration, public administration or a related field; and
2. Two years of full-time paid experience in managing a large centralized governmental accounting operation, including disbursement operations, in a position at least at the level of a Departmental Chief Accountant IV, and which includes professional managerial experience in all aspects of accounting and in the analysis, design, or development of computer-based financial systems.

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application form, each candidate is required to complete the Principal Deputy Controller Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing.  The Principal Deputy Controller Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application.  Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Possession of a certificate as a Certified Public Accountant issued by the California Board of Accountancy is highly desired.
3. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the online job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:
1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be completed at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.
APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualification Questionnaire must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL 10, 2014.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from March 28, 2014 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

NOTE:

EXPERT REVIEW COMMITTEE

Should a large number of qualified applicants file for this examination, an expert review committee may be assembled to evaluate each applicant's qualifications for the position of Principal Deputy Controller. In this evaluation, the expert review committee will assess each applicant's training and experience based upon the information in the applicant's City employment application and the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those applicants considered by the expert review committee as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Principal Deputy Controller, based solely on the information presented to the committee, will be invited to participate in the interview.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

Your examination score will be based entirely on your professional and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the nature and adequacy of the candidate's experience, training, and personal qualifications, including knowledge of:  theories and practices of governmental and commercial accounting and auditing; automated accounting systems with large on-line capabilities, systems analysis and the financial structure of the City of Los Angeles;  City Charter, laws and ordinances relating to the financial administration of the City government; principles and practices of public financial administration; utilization of data processing methods in the maintenance of accounting records and the financial systems of the City including Cash Management; management principles and practices, including planning, delegating, and controlling the work of subordinates; laws and regulations relating to equal employment opportunity; administrative principles and practices and of supervisory techniques;  safe office practices as they relate to subordinate personnel; City personnel rules, policies and procedures; memoranda of understanding as they apply to subordinate personnel; and the ability to: outline and prepare comprehensive reports and to analyze the financial reports of large governmental units; assist in the administration of the Department's fiscal, administrative and personnel functions; plan, direct, coordinate and review the work of management services and accounting through divisional supervisors; interpret policies and procedures of the Controller's Office, City Charter, laws and ordinances pertaining to the financial administration of the City of Los Angeles and recommend the establishment or change of departmental policies; direct the preparation of, and review budget estimates, financial reports and special studies; represent the Controller's Office before various governmental bodies including the City Council and its committees; serve on steering committees for data processing systems and other committees; confer with representatives of other governmental agencies, City departments, elected officials and private concerns on financial or administrative matters; deal tactfully and effectively with the public, government officials and subordinates; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

The Qualifications Questionnaire will not be separately scored, but will be considered by the interview board in evaluating each candidate's qualifications.  Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board.

Candidates will be notified later by mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JUNE 8, 2014 to JUNE 20, 2014.

NOTES:

1. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period under the provisions of City Charter Section 1011.
2. Promotional candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of continuous service in those classes, which provide qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of those candidates.
3. A final average score of 70% in the interview is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
6. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
7. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.10 of a point seniority credit for each year of continuous classified City service in qualifying classes up to a maximum of one point, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
8. If in conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 9653 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03-28-14

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

