PRINCIPAL GROUNDS MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR

  Class Code:       3147
  Open Date: 11-13-15
(Exam Open to All Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY
 
$70,010 to $94,335 and $87,069 to $117,345

NOTE:

Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Principal Grounds Maintenance Supervisor directs the activities of a major organizational unit of a geographic area consisting of several park districts, museums and/or golf courses involving grounds and building maintenance and repair work; supervises through subordinate supervisors landscape layout and development; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Senior Park Maintenance Supervisor or in a class at that level supervising employees engaged in gardening or park maintenance; or
2. Four years of full-time paid experience as a Park Maintenance Supervisor or in a class at that level supervising employees engaged in gardening or park maintenance.

NOTES:

The following are desired but not required of candidates for this class:

1. Accreditation as a Certified Arborist with the International Society of Arboriculture; and/or
2. Possession of a license issued by the State of California as either:
a. a Qualified Applicator for pest control activities; and/or
b. an Agricultural Pest Control Advisor with certification for control of weeds, plant pathogens, or insects, mites, and other invertebrates.
3. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
4. A valid California driver's license may be required.  Candidates may not be eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:
	
Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 2015.



SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Evaluation of Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of training and experience, wherein candidates will be evaluated on their knowledge, experience and professional background. Emphasis may be placed on the candidates experience and training to determine the adequacy of the candidate's technical and managerial experience needed to supervise and administer the operations of parks and grounds maintenance programs, including knowledge of: landscaping design including principles, practices, techniques and materials used in the identification, installation, maintenance and control of grasses, flowers, trees, other plants, and weeds; grading and drainage of landscaped areas; methods for preparing soil for planting, correcting poor soil condition, and maintaining and controlling plant growth, including expertise in various types of soils, and appropriate use of fertilizers, soil amendments and conditioners; methods and standard techniques applicable to horticulture and related work; capabilities, limitations, care, and most efficient use of gardening and grounds maintenance equipment and tools, including construction equipment; preventive maintenance of gardening and landscaping equipment; natural and biological control of pests, including types and uses of insecticides, herbicides, fungicide, and systemic insecticides sufficient to treat diseases and insect infestation of plants, turf grass diseases, and to control rats and pests in buildings; maintenance and inspection of playgrounds, athletic fields, park lakes, other play areas and playground equipment; the operation of parks and playgrounds, including how to lay out play fields and golf courses; laws, policies, and rules governing park usage and public conduct in parks, including wildlife management and conservations in parks; custodial maintenance and cleaning of buildings; safety rules, practices and procedures, including basic first-aid and CPR techniques, safe use of equipment and safe handling of chemicals as prescribed by Cal-OSHA and EPA regulations; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending, and evaluating the work of subordinates through subordinate supervisors; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity, and Memoranda of Understanding as they relate to subordinate employees; and the ability to direct, coordinate, plan, organize, and schedule the work of groups of employees engaged in a variety of grounds, maintenance and repair work; direct a grounds maintenance program through subordinate supervisors sufficient to ensure the level of maintenance is uniform throughout the area, and that repetitive tasks are done at correct intervals as required by the type of grounds maintenance; determine when pavement or other basic structures are starting to deteriorate; prepare practical operating budgets and estimate costs for ongoing grounds maintenance program and related work, including accounting procedures and techniques and estimating costs to install and maintain landscape work; prepare purchase specifications for gardening and landscaping equipment with sufficient proficiency of technical horticultural terms needed for contracts preparation; read and interpret landscape plans and site development sufficient to adjust landscape designs to accommodate changing traffic flow, changed uses of specific locations, and to assure the safety of people who use or frequent these locations; read, interpret, and ensure that contractors are properly fulfilling contracts for annual orders, rentals, special materials; use word processing and other software applications, such as Microsoft Office, sufficient to write letters and reports and maintain records; communicate, both orally and in writing, in a clear, concise and effective manner; deal tactfully and effectively with other City employees, management, the public and others sufficient to receive and respond to public complaints, representatives from other departments and other jurisdictions; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Training and Experience Questionnaires will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation.  The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications as described on the candidate's Training and Experience Questionnaire.  Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the expert review panel.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the Training and Experience Questionnaire writing session, which will be administered in a single, half-day session on SATURDAY, JANUARY 16, 2016, in Los Angeles. Candidates may anticipate being scheduled to a test location where PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their Training and Experience Questionnaire responses.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPOYER


Class Code 3147 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-13-15

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPOYER


Class Code 3147 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-13-15

