PRINCIPAL CIVIL ENGINEERING DRAFTING TECHNICIAN

Class Code:       7219
Open Date:   11-02-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$67,964 to $99,347
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $97,071 to $120,602 and $108,262 to $134,488

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Principal Civil Engineering Drafting Technician directs and coordinates the work of drafting personnel in a major engineering drafting unit engaged in preparing civil, architectural, structural, street lighting or other engineering designs and plans for City construction projects, and in preparing and maintaining maps, drawings and technical records for waterworks, transmission lines, electrical and street lighting facilities, using a Computer Aided Drafting & Design (CADD) system; or a Building Information Model (BIM) System, or a Geographic Information System (GIS); applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Three years of full-time paid experience as a Senior Civil Engineering Drafting Technician or Senior Architectural Drafting Technician or in a class at that level, supervising civil engineering or architectural drafting technicians.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. For some positions, Computer Aided Drafting & Design (CADD), drawing management systems, and/or Geographic Information System (GIS) knowledge and experience is desired.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter. 


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2018.


SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
			    Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and professional development as they have provided knowledge of: principles of engineering drafting, including nomenclature, methods, conventional symbols and sources of information; safety principles and practices; electronic drafting software sufficient to assist subordinate staff in performing the design activities needed to complete various civil engineering drafting projects; new technology, work productivity, and simplification methods and techniques, such as computer aided drafting and geographical information systems sufficient to streamline the process for project completion; supervisory principles, practices, and techniques such as delegation of authority, progressive discipline, performance evaluation, planning, organizing, directing, and staffing sufficient to successfully oversee the work of a major engineering drafting unit; pertinent City personnel rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity and memoranda of understanding as they apply to subordinate personnel; and the ability to review, check, verify and critique the accuracy and conformance to standards of designs, drawings and plans; plan work in a way which achieves organizational and project objectives, completes assignments in a timely manner, and manages multiple assignments and responsibilities efficiently; plan, direct, coordinate, and budget for the work of subordinates in drafting plans for major construction projects;  supervise and train civil engineering drafting personnel; motivate and influence people at a variety of levels to work together and act in ways which contribute to accomplishment of department goals and objectives; prepare and write memoranda, letters, justifications, and narrative reports which are clear, comprehensive, accurate, logically arranged, and incorporate correct English grammar, syntax, spelling, and sentence structure; communicate orally on a one to one, or one to group basis and in writing in a clear, concise, succinct, and effective manner; deal tactfully and effectively with employees, management, and the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interviews, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of JANUARY 7, 2019 to JANUARY 18, 2019.

Prior to the interview, applicants will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Principal Civil Engineering Drafting Technician. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Please note that applicants must complete the advisory essay and meet minimum qualifications as stated on this bulletin in order to be considered further in the examination process. 

The advisory essay will be administered on-line. Applicants invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps needed to complete the on-line advisory essay. Applicants will be required to complete the on-line advisory essay between MONDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 2018 and MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2018. Additional instructions will be sent via e-mail. Applicants who fail to complete the advisory essay as instructed may be disqualified.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous City service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
6. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met. 
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 7219. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-02-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

