PRINCIPAL COMMUNICATIONS OPERATOR
Class Code:       1458
Open Date:  07-25-14
ANNUAL SALARY

$54,100; $55,583; $57,107; $58,673; $60,281; $61,930; $63,642; $65,396; $67,192; $69,029; $70,929; $72,871; $74,876; $76,943; $79,052. Candidates hired by Council controlled departments are normally appointed to the lowest step in the salary range. 

The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $61,324 to $76,212. The salary range in the Department of Water and Power covers multiple steps and candidates may be appointed to a higher step in the salary range.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Principal Communications Operator plans, organizes, and directs the work of Senior Communications Operators and Communications Information Representatives engaged in the operation of a large telephone system and a radio control point; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; and assists a Chief Communications Operator in the management of a large radio and telephone operations center. 

REQUIREMENT

Two years of full-time paid experience as a Senior Communications Operator with the City of Los Angeles, engaged in the supervision and operation of either multiple position radio dispatch consoles, or Computer Assisted Dispatch systems or complex telephone systems.

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

Selective Certification:

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training. Only persons possessing the following as of the close of the filing period may be considered for appointment to fill such positions:

Some positions will require three years of full-time paid experience dispatching public safety personnel using a Computer Assisted Dispatch (CAD) system.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be submitted online by THURSDAY, AUGUST 7, 2014.


SELECTION PROCESS 

Examination Weight: Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and education as they provide knowledge of: City organizational structure, including the functions and locations of various departments; supervisory principles, practices, and techniques, such as planning, organizing, and directing the work of employees, motivating, training, evaluating, disciplining, and counseling employees; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures including subordinates' MOU's, disciplinary and grievance procedures and Equal Employment Opportunity; and the ability to communicate effectively verbally; deal tactfully and effectively with others; and other skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by mail of the date, time, and location of the interviews, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of OCTOBER 20, 2014 THROUGH OCTOBER 31, 2014.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. A final general average of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate. 
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidate's City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that minimum requirements are met.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1458 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  07-25-14

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

