PRINCIPAL ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEER

Class Code:       7875
Open Date:  09-21-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$123,066 to $179,943

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Principal Environmental Engineer serves as the administrative and technical head of one of several Divisions of the Bureau of Sanitation and may represent the Director of the Bureau of Sanitation in meetings with elected or appointed officials, regulatory agencies, citizens groups, or employee labor unions; applies sound management and supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/ MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Registration as a Professional Engineer with the California State Board of Registration of Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists, and
2. Two years of full-time paid professional environmental engineering experience in a class at the level of Senior Environmental Engineer, or
3. Four years of full-time paid professional environmental engineering experience including the supervision of staff engaged in environmental engineering. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above required experience may file for this examination; however, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Applicants must submit proof of registration as a Professional Engineer at the time of filing. Applicants may attach a copy of the registration to the on-line application at the time of filing or will have seven (7) days from the on-line submission date to submit a copy of this registration to: Personnel Department, 700 E. Temple Street, Room 100, Los Angeles, CA 90012. Applicants who fail to submit this document within the time required will not be considered candidates in this examination and their application will not be processed. 
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. For qualifying work experience in Requirement No. 3, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional," experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS
        
Examination Weights:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
      Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Judgment and Decision Making, Emotional Maturity, Oral Communication, Written Communication, Program Responsibility, Leadership, Strategic Planning, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: Federal, State, and local codes, regulations, and rules relevant to the Clean Water Program, Watershed Protection Program, Solid Resources Program, and Environmental Quality Program; environmental engineering principles and practices, such as water resources and landfill management; engineering economics, such as present value cost analysis and life cycle cost; design, project delivery, operation, and maintenance principles for new facilities and/or upgrades of existing facilities, such as a progressive design build process; safety practices, such as confined space entry; risk reduction practices related to employee relations, vehicular accident prevention, sewer backups, flooding, and construction claims; facilities and advanced planning practices, such as population forecasting; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Principal Environmental Engineer.

Prior to the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Principal Environmental Engineer. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. The advisory essay will be administered on-line. Candidates invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to complete the on-line advisory essay, and will be required to do so by the date provided in the instructions sent to them via e-mail. Candidates who fail to complete the on-line advisory essay may be disqualified. It is anticipated that the on-line advisory essay will be administered OCTOBER 15, 2018 to OCTOBER 22, 2018.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of DECEMBER 3, 2018 to DECEMBER 14, 2018.

NOTES:		

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. Promotional candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in a class which provides qualifying experience for this position. A maximum of one point will be added to the score of those candidates.
8. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credit, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit as indicated above, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefits coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 7875 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .09-21-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

