PRINTING PRESS OPERATOR 

Class Code:       1494
Open Date:  09-25-15
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$67,171 to $74,855 and $67,150 to $93,542

NOTE:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions. 
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Printing Press Operator sets up, operates, maintains and makes minor repairs to large, single and multi-color presses; direct to plate, automatic platen press and vertical cylinder presses; and may supervise appropriate staff. 

REQUIREMENTS

1. Completion of a recognized four-year apprenticeship or the attainment of journey-level rank as a printing press operator; or 
2. Four years of full-time paid experience as a Print Shop Trainee or in a class at least at that level, performing printing press work. 

NOTES:

1. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 must submit proof of completion of a recognized apprenticeship program indicated in Requirement #1. Applicant must attach a copy of the proof of completion to the online application at the time of filing. The request document(s) must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application has been submitted. If the document(s) is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the documents. Applicants who fail to submit the document(s) at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination. 
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met. 
3. Candidates with experience operating 29-inch and larger multicolor presses producing top quality orders are especially desired.
 
WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants may be invited to participate in the technical interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from September 25, 2015 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Demonstration of Job Knowledge and Evaluation of General 													               Qualifications by Technical Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100% 
The examination score will be based entirely on a demonstration of job knowledge and an evaluation of general qualifications by technical interview. In the  technical interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's experience, training and personal qualifications as they have provided the background needed to perform the duties of a Printing Press Operator, including the candidate's knowledge of: cylinder presses; off-set presses; characteristics, uses, types, weights and grades of paper stocks and printing inks; safe working practices as they relate to print shop practices and procedures; the ability to mix and match printing inks and discern differences in color, shades, intensities, and viscosities; keep routine records; supervise, train and give direction to a Press Helper; deal tactfully and effectively with subordinates, supervisors, and other City personnel; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of NOVEMBER 30, 2015 to DECEMBER 11, 2015.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
2. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates. 
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin. 
4.  A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5.  You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ON BOTH AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  

Class Code 1494 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09-25-15 

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


