PROCUREMENT SUPERVISOR
Class Code:       1852
Open Date:  05-05-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
                                                                                                       
ANNUAL SALARY

$79,239 to $115,863

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Procurement Supervisor assigns, reviews, and evaluates the work of subordinates related to purchasing a variety of equipment, services, supplies, and materials and the performance of related staff work; personally performs the more complex purchasing work; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

Two years of full-time paid professional experience in a class at the level of Procurement Analyst in commodity purchasing.

A valid certification for one of the following may be substituted for a maximum of one year of the experience lacking:
a. Certified Purchasing Manager (CPM) or Certified Professional in Supply Management (CPSM) issued by the Institute for Supply Management.
b. Certified Professional Contracts Manager (CPCM) issued by the National Contracts Management Association.
c. Certified Public Purchasing Officer (CPPO) or Certified Professional Public Buyer (CPPB) issued by the Universal Public Purchasing Certification Council.

 PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if within the past 36 months they were convicted of a major moving violation, such as driving under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs, and may be disqualified if there are three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents within the past 36 months.
3. Applicants who wish to substitute one of the certifications listed above for required experience must list their Certification Number in the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application at the time of filing. The copy of the Certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the Certificate attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the Certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination. 
4. Commodity Purchasing involves the review of requisitions, development of bid specifications, preparation of bid invitations, analysis and award of bids, negotiating purchases in accordance with established procedures for annual contracts or purchase orders over $1,000.  It also involves the review and forecasting of market trends, development and award of advantageous contracts, and communication with suppliers and users concerning procurement, shipping, receiving, invoicing, and pricing problems and processes.
5. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that required possession of a degree from a recognized four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.



WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure they have time to resolve any technical issues they may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 18, 2017.


SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of experience and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's experience, training, and personal qualifications as they provide the knowledge of: commodity markets, marketing practices, and pricing methods;  laws, regulations, practices, and procedures related to City purchasing activities; sources of supply for a wide variety of commodities including resources for cooperative purchasing arrangement; factors used to determine acceptance of bids; principles and requirements of editing, writing, and revising specifications; purchasing terminology and City terminology relative to purchasing; supply chain management basic principles and processes; Environmental Preferable Purchasing; data processing methods applicable to purchasing activities including Excel, BAVN and reverse actions; fundamental principles and practices of supervision including directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending, and evaluating the work of subordinates; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity; Memoranda of Understanding; and the ability to: negotiate contracts and service level agreements with suppliers; conduct procurement activities through the Internet and electronic commerce; keep accurate records of purchasing activities; implement professional ethics standards as exemplified by the National Institute of Governmental Purchasing and the California Association of Public Purchasing Officers and City Ethics policies and guidelines; coordinate, organize, and prioritize work and establish deadlines; establish and maintain a work environment; effectively communicate orally and in writing; deal tactfully and effectively with others; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JULY 17, 2017 to JULY 28, 2017.

NOTES:

1.   Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
2.   You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
3.   A final average score of 70% in the interview is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4.   Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
5.   As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS


The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 1852. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  05-05-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

