PUBLIC INFORMATION DIRECTOR

 Class Code:      1800
 Open date:  03-03-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$85,086 to $121,041 and $99,932 to $142,214.

NOTES:

1. The current salary is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Public Information Director plans, develops, and administers a comprehensive public relations, marketing, and information program for a City department or a major Citywide project; serves as spokesperson for the department or project; advises management of the potential public relations effect of proposed actions; assists and serves the community through outreach efforts; engages and interacts with the media; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Principal Public Relations Representative or in a class at that level in the preparation and dissemination of information using mass communications media, experience in crisis management or community relations activities; or experience in engaging and interacting with the media; or
2. A bachelor's degree from an accredited four-year college or university including 24 semester or 36 quarter units in public relations, journalism, mass communications, writing or English and five years of full-time paid professional experience responsible for an organization's public relations or news writing, media relations, community relations, public relations events or general public relations function, which includes one or more of the following: interaction with the communications media and/or general public; experience in analyzing, planning, preparing and disseminating information to publicly promote programs or communicate organizational policies; preparing cost estimates for public relations/outreach programs or projects; and experience interacting with or advising management or clients regarding public information techniques.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Applicants qualifying under Requirement #2 must provide the following information on their City application.  Applicants who fail to provide the information will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
a. List their school name and location, type of degree earned and major in the Education Section of the online application; and
b. Applicants that have completed courses in public relations, journalism, mass communications, writing or English as stated in the Requirement, must list the course titles with the number of semester or quarter units, school attended and completion dates in the Supplemental Questions Section of the online application.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license.  Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position.  Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
5. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree and/or coursework.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted online. When you are viewing the online job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. Online job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.



NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from March 3, 2017, in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following: 

Examination Weight: Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, candidates will be assessed on their knowledge of:  the principles and practices of gathering, preparing, and disseminating public information in a large organization that serves a diverse community; promotional public relations activities; the implications resulting from public relations activities on an organization's effectiveness; principles and practices of supervision including planning, delegating, and controlling the work of employees; counseling, disciplining, training, motivating, evaluating employees, and equal employment opportunity; the ability to: translate ideas and suggestions into effective public relations presentations, materials, or campaigns; develop/implement media relations; develop and implement social media campaigns; effectively pitch stories to and follow up with media; advise management in response to public concerns; exercise independent judgment in a variety of routine and crisis situations; work and produce public relations materials under stringent deadlines; speak effectively before the public, media and various stakeholders; interact tactfully and effectively with employees, management, representatives from inside the City, other organizations, and the public; write effective news releases, articles, and public speeches; effectively edit writings completed by subordinates and other employees; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of MAY 15, 2017 to MAY 26, 2017.

NOTES:

1. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided in Section 1011 of the City Charter.
2. Promotional candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of continuous service in those classes, which provide qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of those candidates.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.10 of a point seniority credit for each year of service continuous classified City service in qualifying classes up to a maximum of one point, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.


THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1800 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03-03-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUINTY EMPLOYER

