RATES MANAGER	 
                 Class Code:     5601
										           Open Date: 01-20-17
REVISED: 02-02-17
						(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY 

$126,365 to $156,975 and $148,561 to $184,579

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.


DUTIES

A Rates Manager directs, or assists in directing, employees engaged in the analysis and development of various rate structures for electrical and water services.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION 

Two years of full-time paid experience in a class at the level of Senior Utility Accountant in the analysis and development of electric or water rates, or the analysis of revenue requirements for the establishment of rate structures.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license.  Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must submit with their application a City of Los Angeles "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form, signed by their supervisor, verifying their experience performing work related to the analysis and development of electric or water rates; or analysis of revenue requirements for the establishment of rate structures.  The VWE form should indicate the type of work performed and the amount of time spent performing such work.  The form may be downloaded at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf or may be obtained at the Personnel Department, 700 E. Temple Street, Room 100, Los Angeles, CA 90012. Applicants may attach the completed VWE form to their on-line application at the time of filing, or will have seven (7) calendar days from the on-line submission date to submit a copy of their completed VWE form to: Personnel Department, 700 E. Temple Street, Room 100, Los Angeles, CA 90012. Applicants who fail to submit a copy of their VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE
Applications must be received by THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 09, 2017.


SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:


Examination Weights:  Essay  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Advisory
		            Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: supervision, fiscal management, teamwork, oral and written communication, leadership, industry knowledge, and job knowledge including knowledge of: various rate structures in the Department of Water and Power (DWP) such as commercial, residential, industrial, and co-generation rates for electric and water services; various Federal, State, and local regulations governing electric and water services as found in rate ordinances, the City Charter, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) rules and guidelines, Proposition 26 and Proposition 218; methods used in customer classification and grouping for rate analysis such as voltage and demand levels, time of use, and temperature zones; categories of expenses such as water supply, water distribution, water transportation, water quality, generation, and transmission and distribution for power in accordance with industry best practices; DWP's financial structure and required financial plans used to develop revenue requirements; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Rates Manager.  

At the time of the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Rates Manager. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory essay will be disqualified. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their advisory essay responses.

The interviews, which will be held in Los Angeles, are anticipated to begin during the period of MARCH 20, 2017 to MARCH 31, 2017. Candidates invited to participate in the interview will be required to self-schedule themselves for a specific date and time. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to self-schedule themselves, and will be required to do so by the date provided in the instructions sent to them via email. Candidates that do not self-schedule themselves within the required time will not be considered further in this examination.


NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study. 
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin. 
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the City Charter.
7. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Section 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve problems prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
9. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS


The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 5601 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 01-20-17 REV 02-02-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

