
REHABILITATION PROJECT COORDINATOR

Class Code:       8502
Open Date:  03-27-15
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$82,267 to $120,289 and $86,881 to $127,013
Candidates from the eligible list normally are appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Rehabilitation Project Coordinator plans, organizes and coordinates the administrative, financial and construction activities of grant-funded housing rehabilitation or urban improvement programs and supervises professional, technical and clerical employees engaged in implementing the programs; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective workforce, and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT

Three years of full-time paid experience in a class at the level of Management Analyst, engaged in administering or implementing a program directed at housing development, home ownership, or the physical rehabilitation or improvement of housing or commercial structures; or engaged in inspection activities in such a program.  

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license prior to appointment. Candidates may be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the past 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Upon appointment, a Rehabilitation Project Coordinator may be required to furnish an automobile, properly insured, for City business. Mileage will be paid in accordance with established rates.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE: 

Applicants are encouraged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015.


SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight: Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of personal and professional qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis will be placed on an evaluation of the nature and adequacy of the candidate's background and experience as they have provided the knowledge of: the theory, principles, and practices of the City's affordable housing assistance and housing development rehabilitation programs; Federal, state and local laws and regulations governing housing assistance and rehabilitation programs; principles and procedures of the City's housing development, home ownership, and rehabilitation programs; safety principles and practices;  principles of budgeting, organizational development, and management; supervisory and training principles and practices, including the laws and regulations related to Equal Employment Opportunity; City personnel rules, policies, and procedures; the ability to: organize and manage technical and financial resources to achieve maximum efficiency and production; apply the principles of logical scientific thinking to define problems, collect data, establish facts, and draw valid conclusions, as related to urban improvement and housing assistance programs; plan, coordinate, direct, and review the activities of a group of professional and technical staff; prepare and present written reports and recommendations of a budgetary, technical or evaluative nature, clearly, concisely, logically, and convincingly; communicate orally in a clear and effective manner before individuals and groups; deal tactfully and effectively with the public, representatives of government or community organizations, financial institutions, and City officials; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of MAY 26, 2015 to JUNE 5, 2015.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
3. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
4. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 8502 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .03-27-15


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

