RISK MANAGER

Class Code:       1530
Open Date:  06-17-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$81,161 to $115,487; $100,391 to $142,819; and $120,645 to $171,654.
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $96,277 to $119,621; $119,016 to $147,872; and $139,374 to $173,157

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Risk Manager administers a comprehensive risk management program for a City department which may include:  planning, organizing and directing the work of professional, technical, and/or clerical employees engaged in the administration of a risk management program; identifying and measuring risk exposure; developing methods for controlling risks and preventing losses; collecting and analyzing data on department risks and losses; developing work place safety training and property loss prevention programs; recommending and negotiating insurance coverage; preparing cost of risk reports; recommending risk financing techniques; administering indemnity and insurance requirements for contractors, vendors, tenants and permitees; supervising or monitoring claims administration; applying sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfilling equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university; and
2. Two years of full-time paid experience involving responsibility for two or more of the following areas:
a) risk determination and evaluation
b) risk financing or risk evaluation
c) risk control including safety, industrial hygiene, and/or property loss prevention
d) self insurance administration or owner-controlled insurance (wrap-up) program administration
e) insurance underwriting or production
f) claims management, adjustment or investigation
g) workers' compensation program administration
h) insurance procurement and policy review
i) coordination of brokerage contract, fees, and premiums

Possession of a valid Associate in Risk Management (ARM) or Chartered Property and Casualty Underwriter (CPCU) or Workers' Compensation Claim Professional (WCCP) or Registered Professional Adjuster (RPA) or Certified Risk Manager (CRM) or Fellow in Risk Management (FRM) or Certified Insurance Counselor (CIC) designation may be substituted for a maximum of one year of experience.

NOTES:
	
1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
3. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
4. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree and coursework.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from June 17, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Analytical Ability, Supervision, Teamwork, Oral Communication, Written Communication, Leadership, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: property, casualty, liability, industrial injury insurance, claims practices and related California law; insurance policies and terminology; insurance of marketing systems related to municipal government; duties and responsibilities of insurance brokers and agents, claims adjusters, and underwriters; municipal risks and liabilities; safety management and training programs; loss control methods; risk management-related programs and processes; principles of Owner Controlled Insurance Programs, and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/JobAnalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Risk Manager. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail regarding the date, time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of AUGUST 29, 2016 to SEPTEMBER 9, 2016.  

NOTES:


1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Appointment to this class is subject to a one-year probationary period under the provisions of Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
3. Promotional Candidates will accrue seniority at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of continuous service in those classes which provide qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of those candidates.
4. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credit, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit as indicated above, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
5. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
6. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
7. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list. 
8. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a                                                      promotional basis.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefits coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1530 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06-17-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

