RISK MANAGEMENT AND PREVENTION PROGRAM SPECIALIST

																								        Class Code:       7980 
																								       Open Date:  03-03-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$87,236 to $127,555

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Risk Management and Prevention Program Specialist conducts Citywide technical reviews of the engineering and safety aspects of chemical manufacturing operations involving acutely hazardous materials to evaluate the adequacy of, and the need for, safety precautions to prevent the catastrophic release of toxic materials to the environment; develops and evaluates release prevention program review criteria and quantitative standards and guidelines regarding risk management program implementation consistent with federal, state, and local laws and regulations; serves as the technical advisor regarding highly hazardous materials management; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a bachelor's degree in biological, chemical, physical, environmental, or soil science; environmental health; chemical, mechanical, or environmental engineering; toxicology; industrial hygiene; or a related field; and
2. Three years of full-time paid experience in the development and implementation of risk management plans, accidental release prevention and process safety management in chemical process industries; or 
3. Three years of full-time paid experience in the regulation of federal and/or state risk management and accidental release prevention programs or advanced hazardous materials management.

Registration as an Environmental Health Specialist may be substituted for the required education. A master's degree in chemical, mechanical or environmental engineering may be substituted for one year of the required experience.

PROCESS NOTES


1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Risk Management and Prevention Program Specialist Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Risk Management and Prevention Program Specialist Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
3. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Applicants wishing to substitute registration as an Environmental Health Specialist for the required education must submit a copy of the registration card at the time of filing. The copy of the registration card must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the registration card is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the registration card at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination. 
5. Applicants wishing to substitute education for experience must list their school name and location, degree title, and degree completion date in the text box which appears in the Supplemental Questions section of the on-line application. 
6. Registration as a professional engineer in the State of California is desired but not required. 
7. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
8. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree or coursework.
9. Candidates must possess or complete the following certifications within 180 days of hire: 40-hour HAZWOPER course certification; Aboveground Petroleum Storage Act (APSA) Tank Inspector certification; International Code Council "California UST Inspector" certification.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations.


NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received.  Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from March 3, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Risk Management and Program Prevention Specialist may be evaluated based on the candidate's responses to the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a of Risk Management and Program Prevention Specialist based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%
	
The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the candidate's experience and training as they relate to the knowledge of: chemical engineering, including the theories, practices and techniques of chemical manufacturing and chemicals used in manufacturing processes; chemical process control equipment, instrumentation, and techniques; fundamental chemical engineering specialties, such as mass transfer, heat transfer, fluid flow, and material balance; mechanical and structural design aspects of chemical facilities; basic unit operations involved in chemical manufacturing; methods and techniques involved in controlling air contaminants originating from industrial operations, including equipment used for secondary containment of accidental process releases; probabilistic risk assessment as it pertains to chemical manufacturing facilities; effective safety principles and practices; the ability to: evaluate the potential effects of air contaminants, including acutely hazardous materials on public health and the environment; apply criteria and quantitative standards for making risk assessments; prepare criteria analyses of chemical plant operating procedures and programs and make sound recommendations for changes in procedures where indicated; conduct on-site inspections of chemical manufacturing facilities to determine the potential impact of an operation involving acutely hazardous materials upon the public and the environment; work as a member of a multi-disciplined team; meet and work with government officials, the general public, industrial representatives and others on engineering matters relating to release prevention; prepare clear, concise, and technically sound reports and correspondence based upon engineering observations and findings; learn and utilize various types of electronic and/or manual recording information systems and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

Additionally, the interview board will consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire in their overall evaluation of the candidates' qualifications. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date and time of the interview. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of MAY 8, 2017 to MAY 19, 2017.

NOTES:

1. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. Appointments to a position in this class are subject to a one-year probationary period under the provisions of Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
5. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications are met.
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:
If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ON AN
 OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7980 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03-03-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

