ROOFER                                                         
Class Code:       3476
Open Date:  12-12-14
ANNUAL SALARY 

$67,797 (flat-rated)
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $61,032 or $75,836 (flat-rated).
Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Roofer does skilled work in the application and repair of composition, asphaltic, and other types of roofing, such as tile, modified roll roofing, and single-ply systems; inspects roofs; prepares estimates; and may assume lead duties in the absence of the supervisor.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Completion of a recognized apprenticeship as a roofer; or
2. Five years of full-time paid experience in the application of composition shingle, tile, modified roll roofing, single-ply systems, or "built-up" roofing.
	
NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license.  Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the past 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 must submit a copy of their roofer apprenticeship. Applicants can attach a copy of the apprenticeship to their online application at the time of filing.  Attach the certificate to the online application BEFORE it's submitted.  If the certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and you WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the apprenticeship. Applicants can also submit a copy of their roofer apprenticeship within 7 calendar days of submitting their online application.  A copy can be submitted at the Personnel Department Building, Room 100, 700 E. Temple Street, Los Angeles, CA 90012.
4. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 must submit a copy of their Verification of Work Experience (VWE) form. This form is required for City of Los Angeles experience only. Applicants may attach a copy to their application at the time of filing. Attach the VWE form to the online application BEFORE it is submitted. If the VWE form is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and you WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the required VWE from. Applicants may also submit a copy of their VWE form within 7 calendar days of submitting their online application at the Personnel Department Building, Room 100, 700 E. Temple Street, Los Angeles, CA 90012. The VWE form may be downloaded at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf or may be obtained at the Personnel Department Building, Room 100.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by FRIDAY, DECEMBER 26, 2014.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%
			
The written test will consist of multiple-choice questions by which candidates may be examined for knowledge of: techniques used in the preparation, application, and repair of composition, wood, single ply, built-up, tile, metal, concrete and other types of roofs; tools, equipment, and material used in the preparation, application, and repair of roofs; methods used to estimate the amount of time and materials required for roofing tasks; vehicle load limits relevant to transporting tools, equipment, and materials; the structure and construction of roofs; basic scaffolding and fall protection equipment; general safety practices, safety codes, and regulations (including CAL-OSHA) used in performing roofing tasks; California Vehicle Code driving rules and regulations; proper lifting techniques; ladder safety; preparation of asphalt; techniques used in extinguishing fires; operating principles used with various hoists; and the ability to lead a group of helpers; deal tactfully and effectively with others; read and interpret written material; communicate in writing in a clear and effective manner; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2015, in Los Angeles. 

NOTES:	

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. Based on City policy, before being hired in this classification, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol-screening test.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
6. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
8. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.

NOTICE:

 If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  

Class Code 3476 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-12-14

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

