SAFETY ENGINEER PRESSURE VESSELS

Class Code:       4261
Open Date:  05-03-13
Revised: 12-04-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$89,074 to $107,678
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $101,685 to $113,357.

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Safety Engineer Pressure Vessels inspects steam and other boilers, unfired pressure vessels, and appurtenances for conformance to State laws and City ordinances regulating their design, fabrication, installation and operation.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. A valid Certificate of Competency to inspect boiler and pressure vessels issued by the State of California; or
2. A valid National Board Commission from the National Board of Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspectors.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 will have 7 calendar days from the on-line submission date to submit a copy of the valid Certificate of Competency to inspect boiler and pressure vessels issued by the State of California. Applicants who fail to submit this document within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed. A copy of the certificate may be attached to the on-line application at the time of filing or delivered to the Personnel Department at 700 East Temple Street, Room 100, Los Angeles, CA 90012.
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 will have 7 calendar days from the on-line submission date to submit a copy of their valid National Board Commssison from the National Board of Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspector or proof of having passed the National Board of Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspectors examination if they have not yet received their Commission. Applicants who fail to summit this document within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applicants will not be processed. A copy of the Commission or proof of having passed the examination may be attached to the on-line application at the time of the filing or delivered to the Personnel Department at 700 East Temple Street, Room 100, Los Angeles, CA 90012.
3. Appointees to the Department of Building and Safety are required to furnish their own automobile, properly insured, for use in City service.  Mileage will be paid in accordance with established rates.
4. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if within the past 36 months they were convicted of a major moving violation, such as driving under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs, and may be disqualified if there are three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents within the past 36 months.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Filing may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received.  For administrative purposes, filing may close periodically and reopen the following day.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Application Review . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an application review by Personnel Department staff to ensure the applicants meet the minimum requirements for the job. 

NOTES:

1. You may take the test only once every 365 days during the administration of this examination.
2. Based on City policy, before being hired in one of these positions, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol screening test.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
6. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service rules, applicants who have receive a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 4261 CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05-03-13 REV 12-04-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 

