SANITATION WASTEWATER MANAGER

                              							                         Class Code:      4128    
                                                                                                      Open Date:   09-09-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
 
ANNUAL SALARY

 $91,392 to $130,082, $108,576 to $154,512, and $120,645 to $171,654

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Sanitation Wastewater Manager plans, organizes, directs, and coordinates the work of personnel engaged in wastewater activities; establishes policies for all aspects of wastewater operations; administers a department-wide personnel and labor relations program; plans, coordinates, directs and reviews process control activities, instrumentation, electrical and mechanical operation, maintenance and repair activities of wastewater systems to ensure compliance with legally mandated permit requirements; applies supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective workforce, including personnel training; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience in the City of Los Angeles, Bureau of Sanitation as one of the following:
a. A Chief Environmental Compliance Inspector; or
b. An Environmental Engineering Associate III, or in a position at that level, performing professional engineering work and supervising staff in a wastewater treatment or reclamation plant or wastewater collection systems division; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Wastewater Collection Supervisor, or in a class at that level, which provides experience as a supervisor of maintenance or operations staff in a wastewater treatment plant or wastewater collection systems division; or
3. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Wastewater Treatment Mechanic Supervisor, or in a class at that level, which provides experience in the repair or maintenance of machinery, plant equipment, or facilities in a wastewater treatment, reclamation plant or 24-hour multistage chemical process facility.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Applicants claiming engineering experience under Requirement No. 1b must list the appropriate paygrade on the application or the application will not be processed.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).



WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted online. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1  for Promotional Examinations. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2016.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:


Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's work experience and professional development as they have provided the background necessary to perform the duties of a Sanitation Wastewater Manager, including knowledge of: principles of operation, maintenance, and science applicable to wastewater systems, collection, wastewater treatment, water reclamation, reuse and disposal; wastewater processes, laws and regulations related to water and air quality standards, safety, hazardous material handling, receiving water requirements, the licensing of wastewater treatment plants and personnel, and air quality management; principles of personnel management including planning, scheduling, delegating, and evaluating the work of subordinates; techniques for counseling, disciplining and motivating subordinate personnel; grievance handling; effective employee and equipment safety principles and practices; principles and practices related to budget preparation and the allocation of resources; management and facility betterment; and the ability to: plan and administer a work program to meet legally mandated water and air quality standards, analyze and evaluate operations and develop policies and procedures to effect corrective actions; conduct special studies and investigations into wastewater system problems or violation of discharge limits; use technology (information management systems) to address business efficiency; apply sound supervisory principles and techniques, fulfilling supervisory Equal Employment Opportunity responsibilities; establish and maintain a work environment to enhance both employee morale and productivity; address gaps in employee safety and training needs; deal tactfully and effectively with agencies, unions, and public officials; communicate clearly and effectively with others, including making clear and concise presentations; clearly analyze and sort out issues, list options and provide clear communications; develop and administer comprehensive development programs for employee growth; develop and implement sound fiscal operations, personnel policies and procedures, and comprehensive labor relations programs; use independent judgment to economize resources, handle emergencies and evaluate operations and maintenance of facilities; prepare clear, concise and comprehensive reports; and other necessary knowledge, skills and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of NOVEMBER 28, 2016 through DECEMBER 9, 2016.

NOTES:

1. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
2. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
3. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period under the provisions of City Charter Section 1011.
4. Candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of continuous service in those classes which provide qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of those candidates.
5. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
6. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rules, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 4128 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09-09-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

