SANITATION SOLID RESOURCES MANAGER
    
Class Code:       4126
Open Date:  06-05-15
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$114,610 to $142,380; $127,347 to $158,207

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
		
DUTIES

A Sanitation Solid Resources Manager plans, organizes, directs and coordinates the work of employees engaged in the City's solid waste management program activities including: engineering, curbside collection, landfill maintenance, and closure and construction, container services, program development, planning and implementation, recycling programs, mulching and composting or assists in such work; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.
	
REQUIREMENTS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Solid Resources Superintendent or in a class which is at least at that level with the Department of Public Works supervising or coordinating the work of supervisors and their crews engaged in refuse collection and disposal work; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience in a class at least at the level of Senior Management Analyst supervising solid waste operations staff in the City of Los Angeles, Bureau of Sanitation.

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application, each applicant is required to submit the Sanitation Solid Resources Manager Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Sanitation Solid Resources Manager Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Applicants may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training in one or more of the following areas.  Only persons possessing the following as of the close of the filing period may be considered for appointment to fill such positions.

1. Registration as a Chemical Engineer with the California State Board of Registration of Professional Engineers;
2. Registration as a Civil Engineer with the California State Board of Registration of Professional Engineers.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications WILL ONLY BE ACCEPTED ON-LINE. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE 

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight: 	Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
						Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will be based entirely on an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and background as they demonstrate the knowledge of: methods, procedures, standards, materials, solid resources equipment, and personnel necessary for an effective and efficient City-wide curbside collection, transfer station operation, landfill, maintenance, engineering and construction, clean fuel operation, City-wide recycling programs, Customer Care Center, and private hauler franchises; laws, ordinances, rules and regulations governing solid resources management activities; standard practices and procedures governing establishment and modification of refuse collection, recycling, green material, e-waste, bulky items, construction and engineering, and City-wide field activities; safety principles and practices in solid resources fieldwork; budget requirements and methods of planning and administering a comprehensive Solid Resources Management program for a large city, including City billing systems; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending and evaluating the work of subordinates; procedures for grievance handling; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity and Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) as they relate to subordinate employees; and the ability to plan, direct, coordinate and review, through subordinate supervisors, the activities of a City-wide Solid Resources Management program; establish and maintain a work environment to enhance both employee morale and productivity; communicate, both orally and in writing in a clear, concise, and effective manner sufficient to respond appropriately to customer complaints, and prepare reports and correspondence; deal tactfully and effectively with City officials, employees, the public and others; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

For the advisory essay session, candidates will be required to prepare some written material on a topic related to the duties and responsibilities of a Sanitation Solid Resources Manager.  This material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate.  Candidates who fail to complete the advisory essay may be disqualified.  Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their response.

The Qualifications Questionnaire will not be separately scored, but will be considered by the raters in evaluating each candidate's qualifications. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidate's after the filing period will not be accepted. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the advisory essay session, which will be a single half-day session held on SATURDAY, JULY 25, 2015, in Los Angeles. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory essay will not be scheduled for an interview and will be disqualified from this examination.

Candidates will be notified by email of the date, time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews for this examination will begin during the period of AUGUST 10, 2015 THROUGH AUGUST 21, 2015.

NOTES:

1. Appointments to this class are subject to a one-year probationary period under the provisions of Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter. 
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. Candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those classes which provided qualifying experience for this position. A maximum of one point will be added to the score of the candidate. 
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 4126 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .06-05-15

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

