SECRETARY
Class Code:       1116
Open Date:  03-03-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY
 
$49,423 to $70,323

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
 
DUTIES

A Secretary performs responsible secretarial duties and difficult clerical work requiring the use of independent judgment and a good knowledge of the functions of the organizational unit in which the position is located.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

One year of full-time paid office clerical experience.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met. 
2. All positions in this class require the ability to type. Applicants may be required to submit certification of typing skills for future exam administrations.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010(b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used to fill some positions that require special skills and/or training in one or more of the following areas. Only persons possessing the following at the time of filing may be considered for appointment to fill such positions: 

The ability to speak or write in a language other than English. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs  for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 2017.

	



SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:  Written Test  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .Qualifying 
                                            Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying written test and an interview. In the qualifying written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: office filing systems and procedures; computer applications such as word processing, spreadsheets, calendars, and e-mail; the City's organizational structure, including the functions and locations of various departments; basic arithmetic; supervisory principles and practices including Civil Service Rules and Equal Employment Opportunity responsibilities; telephone techniques as required for answering calls and/or multiple lines; rules of grammar, punctuation and spelling in order to verify the accuracy of work; the ability to: work and interact effectively with co-workers, subordinates, and the public; communicate in writing in order to provide accurate records; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the qualifying written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, MAY 20, 2017, in Los Angeles.

Passing Score for Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score in the qualifying multiple-choice test in order to be scheduled for the interview.

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: computer applications such as word processing, spreadsheets, calendars, and e-mail; the City Clerk's policies and procedures as they relate to retention and/or disposal of government records; supervisory principles and practices including Equal Employment Opportunity responsibilities; telephone techniques as required for answering calls and/or multiple lines; the ability to: record information in order to keep a calendar; utilize various research sources to obtain needed information; work and interact effectively with other; communicate verbally with co-workers, subordinates, supervisors, the public, and City or other outside agency personnel; communicate verbally in order to train and/or instruct clerical personnel in work procedures; organize and prioritize as it relates to the coordination of multiple work activities; plan as it relates to making preparations and/or arrangements for meetings and/or appointments; exercise independent judgment to determine an appropriate method and/or manner for performing work; effectively and diplomatically communicate negative information; deal tactfully and effectively with co-workers, superiors, supervisors, subordinates, various levels of job classes, the public, and other City personnel; and other necessary knowledge, skills and abilities.

Candidates who pass the qualifying written multiple-choice test will be invited to participate in the interview. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study. 
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf .
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
5. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1116 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03-03-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER  

