SECURITY OFFICER
                                                                                                    Class Code:       3181
Open Date:  04-07-17
Revised: 07-27-18
 (Exam Open to All including Current City Employees)
 
                                                                                                                            
ANNUAL SALARY

$41,342 to $60,405
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $42,762 to $65,959

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Security Officer patrols and safeguards City-owned buildings, parks, reservoirs, facilities, grounds, and equipment; answers questions and directs visitors/patrons; assures that only authorized persons enter buildings, yards, and other restricted areas; prepares reports and keeps records; may make preliminary investigations of accidents, thefts, and disturbances; may issue warnings or citations for illegal parking; may testify in court and may detain violators pending the arrival of a peace officer.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. One year of full-time paid experience as a security guard, security officer, security aide, law enforcement officer, correctional officer, traffic officer, park ranger, firefighter, or Police Student Worker (with the City of Los Angeles); or
2. One year of preparation as a police explorer with a law enforcement agency or fire explorer with a fire department; or
3. One year of full-time service, with satisfactory performance, or two years as a reservist, with satisfactory performance, in the United States Armed Forces; or 
4. Completion of 12 semester units or 18 quarter units from an accredited college or university, half of which (6 semester or 9 quarter units) must have been in criminal justice or a behavioral science.

 PROCESS NOTES
	
1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. In addition to the regular City application, you MUST complete an online weighted Qualifications Questionnaire and an online Security Officer Supplemental Training and Experience Questionnaire (T&E) at the time you submit your online application.  The Qualifications Questionnaire and T&E are part of the City job application.  Candidates who fail to submit the City application, Qualifications Questionnaire, and T&E at the time of filing will not be considered candidates in this examination and their application will not be processed.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as a DUI). 
4. A High School Diploma or equivalent is highly desired.
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency.  A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. Applicants completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying coursework.
1. 
6. Candidates will be asked to complete and submit a Personal History Statement (PHS) online at a later date. Certification by a Department is subject to a candidate's completion of the PHS.  Any candidate who does not submit this information by the specified date will be ineligible for certification at that time.  The information provided in your PHS will be used during the Background Investigation.
7. Prior to appointment, a thorough and comprehensive Background Investigation will be conducted.  You must not have a history of criminal or improper conduct including any felony convictions.  You must not have poor employment, military, or driving records, which would affect your suitability for security work.  You must have a responsible financial history.  You must have displayed a pattern of respect and honesty in your dealings with individuals and organizations.  You must be fingerprinted and have no disqualifying record of law violations or other improper conduct.  Potentially disqualifying violations or conduct includes convictions for more than one minor offense within the past year.
8. Candidates may be required to undergo a DRUG and ALCOHOL screening test based on City policy.

WHERE TO APPLY

City job applications, the Qualifications Questionnaires, and the Security Officer Supplemental Training and Experience Questionnaires (T&E) WILL ONLY BE ACCEPTED ON-LINE.   When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity   for Open Competitive Examinations.

1. You must complete the City application, Qualifications Questionnaire and T&E during the initial session.  We recommend that you preview the T&E at http://per.lacity.org/exams/3181tne.pdf prior to completing your on-line application to ensure you provide yourself with sufficient time to complete both the on-line application and the T&E.
2. There is an issue with using Google Chrome as your browser when submitting supplemental information.  For additional information, see the link at http://per.lacity.org/exams/chromeissue.pdf.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

City applications, Qualifications Questionnaires, and Security Officer Supplemental Training and Experience Questionnaires (T&E) WILL ONLY BE ACCEPTED ON-LINE during the dates listed below: 

From 8:00 am Friday, April 21, 2017 to 11:59 pm Monday, April 24, 2017
From 8:00 am Friday, October 6, 2017 to 11:59 pm Monday, October 9, 2017
From 8:00 am Friday, March 2, 2018 to 11:59 pm Monday, March 5, 2018
From 8:00 am Friday, October 26, 2018 to 11:59 pm Monday, October 29, 2018


This examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. Filing periods may change without prior notice or additional dates may be added, as needed, at a later date. For administration purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen on the dates noted in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Security Officer may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire.  Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Security Officer based solely on this information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:	 Personal Characteristics Written Test. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying
		 Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities Written Test  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying
					       Assessment of Training and Experience . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The Personal Characteristics Written Test and Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities Written Test will be given on SATURDAY, JUNE 10, 2017; SATURDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2017; SATURDAY, APRIL 21, 2018; AND SATURDAY, DECEMBER 15, 2018 in Los Angeles.  Those candidates selected for subsequent test administrations will be notified by e-mail of the exact date, time, and location of the test. The above dates are tentative and subject to change depending on department need and additional test dates may be added as needed.

The examination of Security Officer will consist of a qualifying Personal Characteristics Written Test, a qualifying Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities Written Test, and an assessment of training and experience. In the qualifying Personal Characteristics Written Test, which will consist entirely of multiple choice questions, candidates will be assessed for personal characteristic important for successful employment with the City of Los Angeles.

In the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities Written Test candidates may be examined for: attention to detail, ability to communicate and interact with others, self-management including organizing and managing tasks and time efficiently, ability to read and interpret material, and stress-tolerance as it pertains to decision-making ability and judgment.  

Candidates must pass the qualifying Personal Characteristics Written Test and Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities Written Test to have their Security Officer Supplemental Training and Experience Questionnaire evaluated.  The candidates' responses to the Security Officer Supplemental Training and Experience Questionnaire and job application information will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numerical score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications as described on the candidate's training and Experience Questionnaire. The Training and Experience Questionnaire will assess writing ability and may assess other Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities related to Security Officer.  Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the review panel.

If you receive and accept a conditional job offer, appointment is subject to completing a MEDICAL EXAMINATION. Candidates must be determined to be medically qualified to perform the essential duties of a Security Officer. Candidates must undergo a comprehensive medical examination given by a City physician. 

Some positions may also require a psychological evaluation by a psychologist.  For positions requiring a psychological evaluation, candidates must pass the psychological exam prior to appointment.

Some Security Officers will be required to be available to work night or morning assignments, weekends, holidays, rotating shifts, and in various locations throughout the City of Los Angeles.

Some positions may require carrying a firearm and/or a baton and/or chemical agent, and successful completion of an appropriate training for the use of such equipment.  For positions requiring a firearm, candidates must be at least 18 years of age at the time of hire, and they must pass a thorough screening of their personal history and conviction record. 

Some positions may also require a polygraph, administered by a polygraph examiner. For positions requiring a polygraph, candidates must pass the polygraph prior to appointment.

Some positions may require a Physical Assessment Test (PAT). For positions requiring a PAT, candidates must pass the PAT prior to appointment.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Security Officer.

NOTE: 

Federal law prohibits anyone who has been convicted of a misdemeanor involving domestic violence from carrying a firearm. In addition, all candidates being assigned to work at any airport or seaport will be required to comply with federal background standards, including but not limited to, fingerprint based on Criminal History Records checks. 

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a content validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodation to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City Application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. You may take the Security Officer written test only once within 365 days.  If you have taken the Security Officer written test during an open filing period in the Personnel Department within the last 12 months, you may not file for this examination at this time.
5. Your name may be removed from the open competitive list after 6 months.
6. A final average score of 70% in the Training and Experience Questionnaire portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. Your rank on the employment list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of the examination are merged onto one list.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON AN
 OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.




Class Code 3181 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  04-07-17 REV 07-27-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess



