SECURITY AIDE
             								                   Class Code:       3199	 
Open Date:  09-04-15
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$34,660 to $43,075

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Some Security Aides will be required to be available to work night or morning assignments, weekends, holidays, rotating shifts, and in various locations throughout the City of Los Angeles.

DUTIES

Inspects City facilities for security or safety hazards, unruly patrons, or other patrons, or other unusual conditions; and does related work.  

REQUIREMENTS

1. Six months of full time paid experience at the level of Security Aide with the City of Los Angeles inspecting City facilities for security or safety hazards; or
2. At least 18 years old at the time of filing and one year participation with the Airport Police Cadet Program with the Los Angeles World Airports.

NOTES:

1. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
2. In addition to the regular City application form, each applicant is required to complete a Security Aide Training and Experience Questionnaire at the time of filing.  The Security Aid Training and Experience Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Question section of the city application. Applicants who fail to complete the Training and Experience Questionnaire will not be considered candidates in this examination and their application will not be processed.
3. Some positions may require carrying a baton and/or mace, and successful completion of an appropriate training for the use of such equipment.

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

1. In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training. Only persons possessing the following at the time of filing may be considered for appointment to fill such positions.
2. Some positions may require the ability to speak or write a language other than English. If you have the ability to speak or write a language other than English, indicate this language in the appropriate box on the application.

WHERE TO APPLY


Applications and the Security Aide Training and Experience (T&E) Questionnaires WILL ONLY BE ACCEPTED ON-LINE. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations.



NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination. 
                    
APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be evaluated in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from September 4, 2015, in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Assessment of Training and Experience . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of training and experience wherein candidates may be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, and professional background as they have provided the skills, knowledge, and abilities necessary to perform the duties of a Security Aide. Candidates may be examined for knowledge of: customer service techniques; and the ability to: deal with the public; learn and communicate basic information; handle extraordinary situations; prepare written reports; do clerical work; follow written and oral instructions; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

The candidate's responses to the Security Aide Training and Experience Questionnaire and job application information will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications, as described on the Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the review panel.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at the following: http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.  
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. Verified volunteer experience equivalent to that required by this bulletin is acceptable.  Verification must be provided by the applicant.  
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
6. All candidates will be required to complete a thorough medical examination, administered by a City physician.
7. Based on City policy, candidates may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol-screening test.

NOTICE:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON AN
 OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3199 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09-04-15

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

