SENIOR BUILDING MECHANICAL INSPECTOR

 											       Class Code:       4253
       Open Date:  08-18-17
            Revised: 08-31-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$89,074 to $107,678

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Senior Building Mechanical Inspector assigns, reviews, and evaluates the work of Building Mechanical Inspectors engaged in: inspecting residential construction of two dwelling units or less, accessory buildings, signs and swimming pools to secure conformance to zoning ordinances, building and mechanical codes and approved plans, specifications and standards; investigating all complaints and alleged code violations; conducting housing surveys to identify blight, deterioration, and substandard conditions; issuing appropriate orders to comply and citations.  May supervise employees making initial inspections on complaints or referrals received; may conduct in-service training for inspection personnel or serve as a training coordinator; personally conducts the more difficult field inspections; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities. 

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Building Mechanical Inspector.

One year of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as Building Inspector, Electrical Inspector, Heating and Refrigeration Inspector, or Plumbing Inspector may be substituted for one year of Building Mechanical Inspector experience; or
Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a degree in Industrial Technology, Industrial Science, Civil Engineering, or special degree program with an emphasis in Construction Management, Construction Technology, or Inspection Technology may be substituted for one year of Building Mechanical Inspector experience. 


 PROCESS NOTES


1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Applicants wishing to substitute education for one year of the required experience must list their school name and location, type of degree earned and major in the Education Section of the application. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
5. Upon appointment, a Senior Building Mechanical Inspector will be required to furnish an automobile, properly insured, for use in City service.  Mileage will be paid according to established rates.  

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted online. When you are viewing the online job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. Online job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 


NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights: Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying
                                Interview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying written test and an interview. In the qualifying written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: the Los Angeles City Plumbing, Mechanical (including Heating and Refrigeration), and Building Codes; the National Electrical Code; approved building materials and equipment, and proper installation methods; Department of Building and Safety policies related to issuance of "orders to comply" for situations posing immediate hazards; Cal/OSHA regulations and general safety standards; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO); fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending and evaluating the work of subordinates; and the ability to recognize substandard construction or other conditions posing immediate threat to life or property; read and interpret plans, specifications, codes and other technical written information; direct and coordinate the work of groups of employees engaged in a variety of inspection related activities; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the qualifying written test, which will be held in a single half-day session in Los Angeles on SATURDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2017.

Passing Score for Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score in the qualifying written test in order to be invited to the interview.

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of: the Los Angeles City Plumbing, Mechanical (including Heating and Refrigeration), and Building Codes; the National Electrical Code; Department of Building and Safety policies related to issuance of "orders to comply" for situations posing immediate hazards; Cal/OSHA regulations and general safety standards; computer software programs used in the inspection and code enforcement field, including the Code Enforcement Information System (CEIS) and the Plan Check Information System (PCIS); pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO); fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending and evaluating the work of subordinates; and the ability to exercise independent judgment in issuing "orders to comply" sufficient to ensure that orders issued are necessary, timely and in accordance with department policy; work from plans while on job sites sufficient to assist subordinate staff, as needed, and ensure inspections are completed correctly; explain inspection techniques while performing inspections and other duties sufficient to successfully train newly hired inspectors and trainees; direct and coordinate the work of groups of employees engaged in a variety of inspection related activities; organize and maintain accurate records of job progress; prepare written reports; communicate orally on a one-to-one, and occasionally one-to-group, basis both effectively and persuasively; deal tactfully and effectively with the public, sometimes under adverse or hostile circumstances; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate review.
2. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service as a Building Mechanical Inspector, Building Inspector, Electrical Inspector, Heating and Refrigeration Inspector, and Plumbing Inspector will be added to the score of each candidate in the Senior Building Mechanical Inspector examination. 
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. A final average score of 70% on the interview portion of the exam is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 4253 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08-18-17 REV 08-31-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to:  http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

