SENIOR ELECTRIC TROUBLE DISPATCHER

  Class Code:      3829
              										  Open Date: 10-07-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
     
ANNUAL SALARY 

$85,545 to $106,279 and $87,320 to $108,471 

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES 

A Senior Electric Trouble Dispatcher assigns, reviews, and evaluates the work of a small group of employees on an assigned shift engaged in receiving and analyzing electric trouble complaints, dispatching personnel and equipment to clear and repair the trouble and restore service, operating various computer systems and updating databases related to computerized Electric Trouble Dispatching, and arranging for and issuing Work Authorities on the Department's overhead and underground 7,500-volt and below electrical system; approves plans and schedules for switching on the Department's distribution system; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; and may also be assigned to other duties for training purposes or to meet technological changes or emergencies.  

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid experience as an Electric Trouble Dispatcher with the City of Los Angeles.

PROCESS NOTES	

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. A Senior Electric Trouble Dispatcher is subject to 24-hour call-out during power system emergencies.


WHERE TO APPLY


Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2016.


SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
		      Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of experience and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's knowledge of: the types and causes of trouble common to electric distribution lines; the types and capabilities of equipment, including those associated with distribution systems; street lighting circuits and associated equipment such as different types of lights, photoelectric cells, and switching systems;  DWP Operating Orders; 4.8 kv and 34.5 kv distribution circuits in the City sufficient to locate problems on the system; load limits of the 4.8 kv system; patterns of electricity use; facilities such as hospitals, homes with life support systems, Fire and Police stations, and major consumers sufficient to prioritize their importance over other trouble calls; types of damage to electric distribution lines and stations to be expected in earthquakes, storms, and other major emergencies; who to notify in different types of emergencies; available reference books; symbols and abbreviations used on circuit maps and one line diagrams; databases and software used in Electric Trouble Dispatching work; types of cables used by the Department of Water and Power for repair or replacement of electric distribution lines and associated equipment; safety principles, practices and regulations including Department of Water and Power Operating Orders, OSHA regulations sufficient to issue OKs TO and CLEARANCES and safety practices sufficient to prevent injuries to self and others; supervisory principles and practices including directing, assigning, motivating, training, disciplining, commending, and evaluating the work of subordinate personnel; identify special training needs and limitations of subordinates; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunities; and the ability to use wiring diagrams, plans, and graphic material; communicate both orally and in writing in a clear, concise, and effective manner sufficient to discuss technical and other information, problems and possible solutions, request information, or explain the reasons for the length of time or inconvenience arising from clearing trouble on distribution lines; deal tactfully and effectively with employees, the public and others; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.  

On the day of the interview, candidates will be required to respond to an advisory writing exercise related to the duties and responsibilities of a Senior Electric Trouble Dispatcher. This essay material will not be separately scored, but it will be presented to the interview panel for discussion with the candidate and consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate's qualifications. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory essay may be disqualified. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their essay responses. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the interviews, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of DECEMBER 12, 2016 to DECEMBER 23, 2016.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3829. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-07-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

