SENIOR LIBRARIAN
Class Code:      6153
Open Date: 03-31-17
                                                                      (Exam Open to Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$71,889 to $102,291

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Senior Librarian assigns, reviews and evaluates the work of a group of employees engaged in providing a variety of professional library services at Branch libraries, Central Library departments, Engagement and Learning, Emerging Technologies and Collections, and special or system-wide support service units; oversees the more responsible aspects of developing collections and technologies; manages library assets, including facilities and budgets; directly performs or supervises employees engaged in outreach to the community regarding library services; works and represents the Department with patrons, volunteers, community support groups, other city departments, vendors and contractors; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid professional library work as a Librarian.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met. 
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).  
3. For qualifying work experience, the term "professional library work'' applies to positions that require possession of a master's degree in Library Science or Library and Information Science from a school accredited by the American Library Association in order to obtain that position.  Therefore, to be considered "professional'', qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining such a degree.
4. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by the American Library Association. A list of approved institutions can be found at http://www.ala.org/accreditedprograms/directory/alphalist. 
5. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training.  Only persons possessing the following at the time of filing may be considered for appointment to fill such positions.

Some positions may require the ability to speak or write a language other than English.  


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights: Interview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the candidate's experience and training as they relate to the knowledge of: Los Angeles Public Library's goals, policies, procedures, services, and structure; reference procedures, common problems, and general resources; procedures for handling common complaints, catalog systems including online public catalogs; types of non-print materials in the library's collection; collection development policies; standards for selecting materials for all age groups; policies and  procedures of the Los Angeles Public Library for use and circulation of library materials; acquiring materials for patrons with special needs; guidelines for references and reader's advisory services; online public catalogs and circulation system; safety principles and regulations; emergency procedures; supervisory principles and practices including Equal Employment Opportunity; cash handling procedures; the ability to: work with individuals and organizations not affiliated with the library and awareness of recurring problems and difficult situations; use a computer for data retrieval, records management, and general communication; interact with others with perseverance, patience, and tact when explaining Los Angeles Public Library policies and regulations; effectively communicate orally and in writing with supervisors, subordinates, coworkers, and the public; maintain regular and open communication with staff to solicit input regarding branch/department priorities and routine work; implement quality public service; read and interpret material such as supervisors' instructions, reports of problems, or letters and memos; communicate effectively in writing to obtain and/or to provide technical and other information; write narrative reports; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JUNE 12, 2017 to JUNE 23, 2017.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous City service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required timeframe; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
8. Appointees may be subject to weekend and evening work assignments.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

Class Code 6153. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03-31-17


