SENIOR HEAVY DUTY EQUIPMENT MECHANIC

Class Code:       3745
Open Date:  01-20-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$88,865 (flat rated)
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $96,945 (flat-rated); and $101,038 (flat-rated).

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Senior Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanic supervises and works with a small group of employees doing journey-level work in the maintenance and repair of construction, road maintenance, marine, or firefighting equipment.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid journey level experience as a Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanic, or in class at that level in the maintenance and repair of construction, road maintenance, marine, or firefighting vehicles.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the past 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).   
3. Some positions may require a valid California Class A and/or Class B driver's license with an Interstate Medical Examiner's Certification prior to appointment.  Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). For positions requiring a valid California Class A and/or Class B driver's license, applicants must submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1808.1.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted online. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2017.


SELECTION PROCESS
                                                
After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:	Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
               Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .100%
 
The examination will consist of a qualifying written test and interview. In the qualifying written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: basic principles of the internal combustion engine; basic electrical principles; the principles, operation, and repair of hydraulic, air, and mechanical brake systems; gasoline and diesel fuel systems; clutch assemblies; the principles, operating characteristics, and repair of various types of manual and automatic transmissions; drive shafts and final drive assemblies; various hydraulic systems; the operation, servicing and repair of exhaust and emission control systems; air conditioning systems; engine cooling and heating systems; manual steering systems; power steering systems; suspension systems and components on heavy-duty equipment; the overhaul and rebuilding of engines and components on construction, road maintenance, marine and firefighting equipment; tire wear patterns; functions, operation and repair of charging and starting systems; storekeeping procedures used in maintaining inventory of tools, parts and supplies; the operation of specialized towing equipment; use of test equipment and diagnostic methods; Cal/OSHA rules, state vehicle code, and general safety standards; Memoranda of Understanding as related to subordinate personnel; City personnel policies, rules and regulations; basic mathematics; the metric system and metric conversion charts; the ability to: apply supervisory principles and practices, including Equal Employment Opportunity responsibilities; perform State licensed brake adjustments; read and understand written information found in shop documents and manuals; read and interpret City street maps; read and understand technical drawings and schematics; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, APRIL 1, 2017, in Los Angeles. 

Passing Score for the Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the close of the filing period. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years.  Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying written test may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying written test, in order to be invited to the interview. 
The examination score will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and personal qualifications as they have provided the job knowledge to: overhaul and rebuild engines and components on construction, road maintenance, and firefighting equipment; Cal/OSHA rules, state vehicle code, and general safety standards; Memoranda of Understanding as related to subordinate personnel; City personnel policies, rules and regulations; the ability to: diagnose needed equipment repairs; use equipment manuals; apply sound supervisory principles and practices, including Equal Employment Opportunity responsibilities; communicate orally on a one-to-one basis; communicate orally with large groups to provide information and explain procedures and methods of performing tasks; complete written forms and reports; schedule and determine work priorities; and other necessary knowledge, skills and abilities.  

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% in the interview is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 3745. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 01-20-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

