SENIOR COMMUNICATIONS ELECTRICIAN

                                                                                                       Class Code:       3638
                                                                                                       Open Date:  03-03-17
     (Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$94,941 (Flat-Rated)
The salary for positions in the Department of Water and Power is $114,568 (Flat-rated). A shift differential is paid for positions requiring night work.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Senior Communications Electrician acts as a lead for and works with a small group of employees engaged in the construction, installation, repair, maintenance, and modification of communication systems and equipment such as: radio, microwave transmission, Local Area Network/Wide Area Network data distribution systems, telephone networks, audio, avionic electronics, intrusion alarm systems, mobile digital terminals, dispatch networks, copper and fiber-optic cable systems, video distribution systems, supervisory control and data acquisition (scada), and transmission systems.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid experience in a class at least at the level of Communications Electrician engaged in the construction, installation, operation, repair, maintenance, or modification of electronic communication systems.

PROCESS NOTES


1. In addition to the regular City application, all candidates must complete the Senior Communications Electrician Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Senior Communications Electrician Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions of the City Application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. A valid General Radiotelephone Operator's license issued by the Federal Communications Commission is required prior to appointment for some of the positions in this class.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter. 	


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 2017.


SELECTION PROCESS 

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:   Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. During the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's knowledge of: principles and theory relating to electronic systems; common sources of trouble in electronic systems; methods of servicing and repairing electronic systems; materials, test equipment and tools used in the construction, servicing, installation and repair of monitoring, control and communication facilities; hazards and safety precautions applicable to working on or installing energized lines and equipment, operation of test equipment, tools and other relevant electrical and mechanical devices; pertinent City and Personnel rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity policies; fundamental principles and practices of supervision including directing, assigning, motivating, training, and evaluating the work of subordinates; and the ability to locate and trace trouble in electronic systems; effectively use electronic test equipment, tools and materials employed in constructing, servicing, installing, repairing and operating a variety of monitoring, control and communication facilities; apply established principles of electrical and electronic circuitry to particular problems, emergency situations and service a variety of monitoring, control, and communication facilities; provide technical direction to lead a group of workers engaged in construction, installation, repair, maintenance and modification of communication systems and equipment; read and interpret a variety of diagrams and sketches; communicate orally and in writing in a clear and effective manner; deal tactfully and effectively with others; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

As part of the evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will also consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the interview board.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interviews, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of MAY 8, 2017 to MAY 19, 2017.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 3638 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03-03-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

