SENIOR MACHINIST SUPERVISOR
                                                                                                       Class Code:       3768
                                                                                                       Open Date:  04-29-16
REVISED 05-10-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$122,670 to $136,075 and $132,024 to $146,448

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Senior Machinist Supervisor plans, organizes and directs the work of various craft supervisors and their crews engaged in either shop or field maintenance, repair, and overhaul of hydraulic and steam generating equipment and other machinery; or plans, organizes, coordinates and schedules the overhaul and repair process done by mechanical crews on power plants and stations; applies sound supervisory techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force, and fulfills equal opportunity responsibilities. 


REQUIREMENTS

Two years of full-time paid experience as a first level supervisor in a machine shop, welding shop, structural steel shop, sheet metal shop, or similar work-craft shop.

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2016.


 
SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight: Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory     
			           Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and background as they demonstrate the knowledge of: and coordinating the maintenance, repair, and overhaul of hydraulic and steam generating equipment and other machinery, or power plants and stations, and demonstrated knowledge of:  terminology, tools, and practices of the machinist and other trades to cut and shape metal and other materials for the fabrication and repair of various types of machinery and equipment; physical properties and uses of cast iron, steel, brass, aluminum, copper, bronze, plastic, and other materials and alloys; rigging practices in the lifting of heavy equipment, machines, and materials; inspection procedures to determine extent and method of repairs to engines, turbines, pumps, compressors, valves, pneumatic tools, fans, blowers, jigs and fixtures, dies, special equipment, and their component parts; dismantling, repairing and assembling various types of engines, turbines, pumps, vehicular and construction equipment, water distribution and power generating equipment, and various mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, and electrical assemblies; estimating methods to determine material and labor costs for the fabrication and repair of machine parts and equipment; requisitioning methods to acquire the necessary materials, supplies, tools, and services; principles and practices of safety in the shop and in the field, and the requirements of CAL-OSHA and department safety rules;  supervisory principles and practices including assigning work, evaluating performance, scheduling, training, and motivating subordinates; Memoranda Of Understanding and City's Personnel Rules relating to Equal Employment Opportunity, employee discipline, and employee relations, and Department of Water and Power organization and functions, policies, and working rules required for the coordinating, scheduling, and administration of machinist and other trade work; and the ability to interpret blueprints, drawings, sketches, and specifications required for estimating costs and the fabrication and repair of machines and equipment; determine practical methods and procedures for installing, repairing, and overhauling various types of machines and equipment; reference and interpret various codes, manuals, City and department rules, handbooks, and manufacturers' specifications to obtain the necessary information for the fabrication and repair of various types of machinery and equipment; supervise through subordinate supervisors, the work of several crews of machinists and other craft workers in the shop and in the field; communicate orally on a one-to-one basis or with a group for the purpose of explaining policies, procedures, or regulations and persuading others; deal tactfully and effectively with subordinates, other employees, and personnel from private and other public agencies; apply report writing principles and practices sufficient to prepare disciplinary, summary, justification, and management reports; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

At the time of the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Senior Machinist Supervisor. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory essay may be disqualified. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their advisory essay responses. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JULY 11, 2016 through JULY 22, 2016.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City employment application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 


THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 3768 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05-10-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

