SENIOR ELECTRICAL TEST TECHNICIAN 

Class Code:      7515
     Open Date: 09-29-17
Revised: 10-12-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$81,703 to $101,497; $106,446 to $112,376; and $108,805 to $114,881

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
3. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Senior Electrical Test Technician performs highly skilled work and specialized functions in the installation, operation, maintenance, calibration, evaluation, repair, acceptance and periodic testing and inspection of electrical equipment and apparatus and other systems and devices; develops work plans and schedules; may act as a lead to a small group of journey-level Electrical Test Technicians, trainees, and Electrical Craft Helpers in addition to performing or providing technical support for the more difficult and skilled electrical work; and performs related suites. 

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION 

Two years of full-time paid experience as a journey-level Electrical Test Technician (formerly Electrical Tester) with the City of Los Angeles. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as a DUI).
3. Some positions may require a license to operate a forklift or crane.
4. To attain journey-level status requires completion of a recognized apprenticeship as an Electrical Test Technician with the City of Los Angeles. 
5. Time served as an Electrical Test Technician trainee in the Department of Water and Power DDR Number 95-75121 will not be recognized as journey-level experience. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 



NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%
                               
The examination will consist entirely of a weighted written test. In the weighted written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, the following competencies may be evaluated: Reading Comprehension, Analytical Ability, Electrical Understanding, Interpersonal Skills, Safety Focus including: the Department of Water and Power Operating Orders and Cal-OSHA safety rules and procedures required when lifting equipment, materials, tools and supplies, working with or around high and low voltage equipment, and while climbing electrical equipment; and the equipment used to test for and ventilate gases and dead air in manholes and vaults; and Job Knowledge including knowledge of: distinguishing features of electrical and electronic equipment and their operation; methods and equipment used to troubleshoot and/or test the functionality of electrical equipment, systems, and devices; Cathodic Protection theory and practices as applied to corrosion mitigation of underground transmission and distribution power cables, lead cable sheaths, new distribution facilities, fuel oil/gas pipe lines, sub-structures, and infrastructures at generating facilities; professional standards related to electrical and electronic testing; sources commonly associated with causing trouble to electric meters and other electrical and electronic equipment; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.
 
Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Senior Electrical Test Technician.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2017 in Los Angeles.  

NOTES:	

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20 the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.  
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin. 
4. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.	
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.


Class Code 7515. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .09-29-17 REV 10-12-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 


