SENIOR ARCHITECTURAL DRAFTING TECHNICIAN

Class Code:       7208
Open Date:  09-14-18
 (Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$57,816 to $84,543

The salary for most positions in the Department of Water and Power is $78,801 to $97,906; $86,276 to $107,177; and $88,823 to $110,329

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
3. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Senior Architectural Drafting Technician assigns, reviews and evaluates the work of drafting technicians engaged in the preparation of architectural and structural drawings and plans which are used by various disciplines; performs subprofessional engineering work in the architectural field; works closely with design staff and other department sections; uses Computer Aided Drafting and Design software (CADD) and other drafting tools; monitors, maintains, and proposes upgrades for CADD software; performs drafting work on the more difficult projects; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Three years of full-time paid experience in architectural or structural drafting in a class at the level of Architectural Drafting Technician. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Senior Architectural Drafting Technician Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Senior Architectural Drafting Technician Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed. 
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Exams.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2018.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
                                       Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and professional development as they have provided knowledge of the methods, equipment, and materials used in architectural drafting; details, drafting conventions, and symbols used in different types of drawings; characteristics of various reproduction processes, equipment and materials; higher level mathematics and its application to reinforced concrete construction, structural steel calculations and dimensioning; trigonometry and data tables as they apply to architectural and structural drafting; City Building Codes, CAL/OSHA guidelines, National Building Code, ADA and other Architectural Barriers Laws and related manuals; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending and evaluating the work of subordinates; and the ability to assemble, prepare and interpret charts, graphs, calculations and tables; draw and interpret construction drawings and specifications; create and interpret digital and physical 3-D models; use, develop, and implement computer aided drafting and design (CADD) software systems and Building Information Modeling (BIM) such as AutoCAD, Revit, Microstation, ProStructures, and AECOSIM sufficient to instruct subordinate personnel; analyze drafting progress and problems, and provide feasible and practical solutions to maximize cost effectiveness; identify potential problem areas in construction; direct and coordinate the work of groups of employees engaged in architectural and structural engineering drafting projects; deal tactfully, persuasively and effectively with a variety of individuals; communicate orally on a one-to-one and one-to-group basis for the purpose of obtaining and providing information in a clear, logical, persuasive and accurate manner; prepare clear and accurate standards and narrative reports utilizing proper grammar and punctuation; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

As part of the interview, candidates will be required to present to the interview panel members a portfolio with samples of their architectural design work. While the interview panel members will not assign a separate score to the samples, the interview panel members will consider the quality of the samples in their overall evaluations of the candidate's qualifications. Candidates should expect the interview panel members to discuss the samples with them during their interviews. Specific information regarding the portfolio of architectural design samples to be presented to the interview panel will be e-mailed to those candidates invited to participate in the interview. All samples will be returned to the candidates after the conclusion of their interviews. In addition, the interview panel members will also consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Candidates may also expect interview panel members to discuss this information during the interviews. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the interview panel in lieu of the Qualifications Questionnaire.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interview will begin during the period of NOVEMBER 26, 2018 TO DECEMBER 7, 2018.

Prior to the interview, applicants will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Senior Architectural Drafting Technician. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Please note that applicants must complete the advisory essay and meet minimum qualifications as stated on this bulletin in order to be considered further in the examination process.

The advisory essay will be administered on-line. Applicants invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps needed to complete the on-line advisory essay. Applicants will be required to complete the on-line advisory essay between FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2018 and SATURDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2018. Additional instructions will be sent via e-mail. Applicants who fail to complete the advisory essay as instructed may be disqualified.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7208 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09-14-18 

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

