SENIOR ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEER

Class Code:       7874
Open Date:   12-18-15
															(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$109,098 to $135,552

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Senior Environmental Engineer performs professional environmental engineering work in conducting research and planning studies; supervises the design of water reclamation facilities; assists in planning, directing and organizing the activities of wastewater collection, industrial wastewater, stormwater, regulatory affairs, water reclamation plants, and solid resources divisions, including analysis of environmental impact; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Two years of full-time paid professional environmental engineering experience in a class at the level of Environmental Engineer; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Project Manager I, II, or III with the City of Los Angeles receiving the appropriate salary bonus performing the work specified in Requirement #1; and
3. Registration as a Professional Engineer with the California State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers.

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Senior Environmental Engineer Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Senior Environmental Engineer Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section on the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training in one or more of the following areas.  Only persons possessing the following as of the close of the filing period may be considered for appointment to fill such positions.

    Registration as a Chemical Engineer with the California State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2015.


SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
					   Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation by interview of the candidate's professional and personal qualifications.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's knowledge of: Federal, State, and local codes, regulations, and rules relating to collection, treatment, and disposal or reuse of liquid and solid wastes, and environmental protection sufficient to monitor and evaluate industrial waste or environmental pollution; safety principles and practices sufficient to implement and enforce safety regulations and directives; chemistry, biochemistry, and microbiology sufficient to understand the operation of waste water and other waste treatment processes; principles of hydraulics and hydrology sufficient to identify system needs and improvements in existing facilities; parameters applicable to the assessment, inspection, design, and operation of facilities for collection and treatment of wastewater, stormwater, and solid waste; engineering economics, finance, and mathematics sufficient to prepare budgets, check design calculations, estimate operation or other types of costs; efficient resource management and pollution control with focus on reduction, recycling and reuse; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including directing, assigning, training, counseling, disciplining, commending, and evaluating the work of subordinates; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity and Memoranda of Understanding; and the ability to direct and coordinate the work of groups of professional employees engaged in environmental engineering work, including research and planning studies; read and interpret Federal, State, and local legislation, plans, and reports from subordinate; communicate, both orally and in writing, in a clear, concise, and effective manner sufficient to discuss technical information, problems, solutions, procedures, and persuade others to adopt a specific opinion or course of action; make presentations to groups, such as government agencies, professional organizations, community groups, or others; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

The Qualifications Questionnaire will not be separately scored, but will be considered by the interview board in evaluating each candidate's qualifications. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board.

Candidates will be required to prepare some written material on a topic related to the duties and responsibilities of a Senior Environmental Engineer. This essay material will not be scored separately, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their responses. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the advisory writing session, which will be held in a single half day session on SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2016, in Los Angeles.

Candidates must complete the advisory writing exercise. Those who do not complete the advisory writing exercise will not be invited to the interview and will be considered to have failed the entire examination.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of MARCH 21, 2016 to APRIL 1, 2016.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. The incumbents of some positions in this class may be required to pass an annual or periodic work fitness evaluation to determine their eligibility for continued employment in this class.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required timeframe; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7874 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12-18-15

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

