SENIOR ELECTRIC SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE

Class Code:       7521
Open Date:  09-29-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
											  
ANNUAL SALARY 

$108,805 to $114,881; $115,194 to $ 121,626; $118,786 to $125,405; $134,676 to $142,192.

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
3. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Senior Electric Service Representative plans, directs, assigns, reviews, and evaluates the work of Electric Service Representatives engaged in providing assistance to Department of Water and Power customers and contractors regarding electric power distribution and service, design, construction, and installation activities, and the interpretation of rules; directs the inspection of new and modified electrical distribution facilities and services, and the investigation of customers' complaints regarding services and equipment, and approves necessary corrective action; applies supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective and safe work force; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

Two years of full-time paid experience as an Electric Service Representative or in a class at that level which provides experience in arranging for the extension of the electric distribution system and the installation of electric service facilities, or for providing information relative to the design and construction of new and modified electrical facilities and services.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a convection of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Applicants filing using City of Los Angeles experience in a City class other than Electric Service Representative must submit a "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form with the required signatures, verifying their experience in arranging for the extension of the electric distribution system and the installation of electric service facilities, or for providing information relative to the design and construction of new and modified electrical facilities and services. Applicants may attach their completed VWE form to their online application at the time of filing, or will have seven (7) calendar days from the online submission date to email a copy of their completed VWE form to per.appdocs@lacity.org. The subject line of your email must include the exam title, your name and indicate it is a VWE. In the body of your email, you must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number and contact phone number. Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed. 



WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview.  In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and professional development as they demonstrate knowledge of: principles of electricity pertaining to utility distribution power line construction, load and voltage control and electric services, metering, and customers' electric equipment; equipment materials, and practices used in the construction of overhead and underground power distribution systems, and in the installation and maintenance of electric services and meters; common types and sources of power line voltage, service and metering irregularities; department regulations, electric rate schedules, and local and state laws applicable to utility power line construction and the installation, maintenance, repair and use of electric services and meters; safety principles and practices; Los Angeles Electrical Code; characteristics of electrical equipment used by customers; supervisory principles and practices including planning, delegating and controlling the work of subordinates; supervisory techniques of training, instruction and evaluating subordinate work performance; techniques for counseling, disciplining and motivating subordinate personnel; procedures for grievance handling; supervisory responsibility for Equal Employment Opportunity as set for in the City's EEO Program; the laws and regulations related to Equal Employment Opportunity; Memorandum of Understanding, City personnel rules, policies, and procedures; and the ability to: analyze subordinates' reports and recommendations on defects in utility power lines and customers' electric services and equipment; establish and maintain a work environment to enhance both employee morale and productivity; apply supervisory principles and techniques; fulfill supervisory Equal Employment Opportunity responsibilities as indicated in the City's Equal Employment Opportunity Program; deal tactfully and effectively with the public, subordinate employees, other governmental officials and private contractors; explain complex regulation and technical data regarding electric services to subordinates, other governmental officials, and contractors; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.
 
Candidates will be notified later by e-mail regarding the date and location of the interviews, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of DECEMBER 11, 2017 to DECEMBER 22, 2017.
.  
NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous City service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required timeframe; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
Class Code 7521 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09-29-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 


Class Code: 7527 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-11-02

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


