SENIOR SAFETY ENGINEER ELEVATORS

Class Code:       4264
Open Date:  04-27-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)


ANNUAL SALARY

$83,415 to $121,939

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Senior Safety Engineer Elevators assigns, reviews and evaluates the work of Safety Engineer Elevators engaged in the inspection of escalators, elevators, and similar devices for conformance to State laws and City ordinances regulating their design, installation and operation; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid experience as a Safety Engineer Elevators with the City of Los Angeles.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid Certificate of Competency to Inspect Elevators issued by the California Division of Industrial Safety is required prior to appointment.
3. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Upon appointment, a Senior Safety Engineer Elevators will be required to furnish an automobile, properly insured, for use in City service.  Mileage will be paid on the basis of established rates.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 



NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 10, 2018.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

Your examination score will be based entirely on an evaluation of your professional and personal qualifications. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on an adequacy of the candidate's experience, training, education and personal qualifications as they have provided the background necessary to perform the duties of a Senior Safety Engineer Elevators including the knowledge of: elevator and escalator installation, operation and maintenance; engineering principles and practices applicable to the design and installation of escalators, elevators and similar lifting devices; inspection and testing methods related to escalators, elevators and similar lifting devices; City of Los Angeles Elevator Code, California Elevator Safety Orders, City of Los Angeles Electrical Code and other codes applicable to the installation and operation of escalators, elevators, and similar lifting devices; functions and procedures of the Elevator Inspection Section in the Department of Building and Safety; applicable accident prevention and investigations principle and practices relevant to escalators, elevators, and similar lifting devices; safety principles and practices; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including  planning, delegating, directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining and evaluating work performance; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures including, Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO); and the ability to interpret plans and specifications for the installation of escalators and lifting equipment; analyze difficult problems and adopt an effective course of action; apply the provisions of the various laws and codes applicable to the installation and operation of escalators, elevators, and similar lifting devices to specific installations; detect unsafe conditions and practices and make decisions conforming to legal requirements and recognized safety practices; establish and maintain a work environment to enhance both employee morale and productivity; deal tactfully and effectively with other employees, contractors and the public; communicate orally in a clear, concise and convincing manner; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and place of the interviews, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JULY 2, 2018 to JULY 13, 2018.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
6. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 4264 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .04-27-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


