SENIOR CIVIL ENGINEERING DRAFTING TECHNICIAN 

Class Code:       7207
Open Date:  08-17-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$57,816 to $84,543
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $78,801 to $97,906; $86,276 to $107,177; $88,823 to $110,329.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The annual salary is the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Senior Civil Engineering Drafting Technician assigns, reviews and evaluates the work of drafting technicians engaged in the preparation and maintenance of civil and structural engineering maps, design drawings, and plans; performs and maintains project records; assists in the development, training and implementation of computer-aided drafting (CAD), geographic information systems (GIS) and drawing management systems, in compliance with drafting and design standards; manages media storage, retrieval and security of data, electronic drawings and digital photo files; performs technical subprofessional engineering work in preparing designs, plans, specifications, and estimates; prepares complex civil and structural engineering plans on CAD; provides engineering information relative to proposed work to engineers, contractors and the general public; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills Equal Employment Opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Three years of full-time paid experience in civil engineering drafting in a class which is at the level of a Civil Engineering Drafting Technician.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Civil engineering drafting includes drafting and making computations in preparation of a wide variety of records, maps, engineering models, GIS and engineering drawings for projects such as streets, sewers, storm drains, aqueducts, water and power transmission and distribution systems; power generating, distributing, commercial, and service facilities; communications systems including Fiber Optic; green power systems and facilities; water pipelines, wastewater treatment plants, and other City or City-Department owned facilities, bridges and structures, including buildings, retaining structures, and foundations.
4. Experience in computer-aided drafting is especially desired for most positions.
5. In some City departments, employees may be required to work a four-day, forty-hour workweek and may be subject to weekend and evening work assignments.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, AUGUST 30, 2018.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:	Multiple-Choice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
			Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination for Senior Civil Engineering Drafting Technician will consist of a qualifying multiple-choice test and an interview. The qualifying multiple-choice test will consist of questions administered and proctored on-line. In the on-line multiple-choice test, the following competencies may be evaluated: knowledge of: the methods, equipment, and materials used in civil engineering drafting; drafting tools and their proper applications; scope and interpretation of national and local standards related to civil engineering drafting; details, drafting conventions, and symbols used in different types of drawings; problem areas in construction relating to details in diagrams, schematics, and plans; arithmetic, algebra, geometry, trigonometry, and their application to the computation of distances, angles, and areas; leveling, plane and geodetic surveying techniques, angular measurements and calculations; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including the rules, regulations, principles and practices related to Equal Employment Opportunity; City personnel rules; Memoranda of Understanding as they relate to subordinate employees; and the ability to: analyze drafting progress and problems while providing feasible and practical solutions to maximize cost effectiveness; use various drafting tools and equipment; interpret technical documents; read and interpret schematics, design plans, and specifications; utilize computer assisted drafting (CAD) software systems; interpret and prepare tables and schedules; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

The multiple-choice test will be proctored and administered on-line during a single session. Candidates invited to participate in the on-line multiple-choice test will be able to take the test from any location using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will receive an email from the City of Los Angeles outlining the dates and specific steps on how to take the multiple-choice test on-line. It is anticipated that the remote proctored multiple-choice test will be held in OCTOBER 2018. Candidates who do not complete and submit the remote proctored multiple-choice test on-line using a computer by the specified date and time will not be considered further in this examination.

Passing Score for Qualifying Multiple-Choice Test

The passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying multiple-choice test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice test may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score in the qualifying multiple-choice test in order to be scheduled for the interview.

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and education as they provide the knowledge of: the methods, equipment, and materials used in civil engineering drafting; problem areas in construction as relating to details in diagrams, schematics, and plans; leveling, plane and geodetic surveying techniques, angular measurements and calculations; City personnel rules; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including rules, regulations, principles, and practices relating to Equal Employment Opportunity; and ability to: utilize computer assisted drafting (CAD) software systems; organize work in a professional manner; direct and coordinate the work of groups of employees engaged in civil engineering drafting skills; analyze drafting progress and problems and provide feasible and practical solutions to maximize cost effectiveness; interpret technical documents; communicate orally on a one-on-one and group basis for the purpose of obtaining and providing information; and other necessary knowledge, skills and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the multiple-choice test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON AN 
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7207. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08-17-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

