SENIOR CIVIL ENGINEER
Class Code:       9485
Open Date:     1-26-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$105,444 to $154,115

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Senior Civil Engineer performs difficult and responsible professional civil engineering work in supervising the planning, budgeting, design, construction, project management, progress reporting, maintenance and operation of municipal facilities and structures; may act as an assistant division or district engineer; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid engineering experience in a class at the level of Civil Engineer or in a position in the City of Los Angeles designated as a Project Manager I, II, or III receiving the appropriate salary bonus; and
2. Registration as a Civil Engineer with the California State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.	
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Registration as a Professional Engineer in Civil Engineering with the State of California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists is required at the time of filing. Applicants must list their Professional Engineer registration number and expiration date in the Supplemental Questions section of the application.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2018.



SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory 
                                      Interview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of experience and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's training, background, and experience as they have provided the candidate knowledge of: civil engineering principles and practices as applied in the preparation of environmental documentation, designs, plans, specifications, estimates, studies, and recommendations; resource materials such as textbooks, technical publications, codes, Los Angeles City Charter, and professional organizations in various areas of civil engineering; safety rules and regulations such as CAL/OSHA and related City ordinances; environmental procedures in order to collaborate in the preparation of environmental documents and ensure environmental compliance of designed construction; the coordination, supervision, organization, and budgeting procedures implemented in large-scale engineering and design work; City Departments and other government municipalities; City procedures for preparing and submitting proposed budget requests and justification; City contract and bid procedures; program and project budget development, monitoring, and recovery methods to ensure projects are delivered within budget; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures including Civil Service Rules, City Charter, Administrative Code, Equal Employment Opportunity responsibilities and Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) as they relate to subordinate personnel; supervisory principles, practices and techniques such as delegation of authority, progressive discipline, performance evaluation, planning, organizing, directing, and staffing; and the ability to analyze and evaluate engineering design alternatives for technical and economic feasibility, and to make sound recommendations; review, check, verify, and critique the technical validity of designs, plans, and reports; plan work in order to achieve organizational and project objectives in a timely manner; motivate and influence others at a variety of levels to work together and act in ways which contribute to accomplishment of department goals and objectives; communicate effectively, both orally and in writing, with community groups, City departments, and other government agencies sufficient to report findings, explain information, support or make recommendations and decisions; deal tactfully and effectively with employees, other government agencies, City Council, commission members and the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of APRIL 2, 2018 to APRIL 13, 2018.

Prior to the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Senior Civil Engineer. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates who fail to complete the Advisory Essay as instructed may be disqualified.

The Advisory Essay will be administered online. Candidates invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps needed to complete the online Advisory Essay. Candidates will be required to complete the online advisory essay on SATURDAY, MARCH 17, 2018. Additional instructions will be sent via e-mail. 

NOTES:
  

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 

THIS EXAM IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY 
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code: 9485  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 01-26-18


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 


