SENIOR PORT ELECTRICAL MECHANIC

Class Code:       3847
Open Date:  07-29-16
REVISED: 08-11-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$112,955 (flat-rated)

NOTE: 

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
  
DUTIES

Works with and supervises a small group of Port Electrical Mechanics performing skilled electrical, mechanical, electronic, welding, and rigging maintenance and repair work on de-energized and energized high voltage electrical conductors, wharf-side high voltage electrical power connections, barge mounted high voltage electrical equipment, container cranes, drawbridges and other Harbor Department (Harbor) structures and equipment; and performs related duties as a designated Qualified Electrical Worker.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

Two years of full-time paid experience as a Port Electrical Mechanic with the City of Los Angeles performing inspections, maintenance, and repairs of high voltage electrical systems, marine terminal structures, and equipment.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met. 
2. A valid designation as a Port of Los Angeles Qualified Electrical Worker is required at the time of appointment and must be maintained throughout employment in this classification.
3. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Some positions may require a valid Class B driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
5. Some positions may require a license to operate a forklift or crane.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, AUGUST 18, 2016.


NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Essay. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
																	Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%
																	
The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's work experience and professional development as they have provided the background necessary to perform the duties of a Senior Port Electrical Mechanic, including knowledge of: electricity and electronics as related to the installation, maintenance, and repair of electrical equipment, electronic solid state devices, circuits, wiring, and equipment in Port installations; electrical, mechanical, electronic, rigging, and hydraulic components and systems; major and minor malfunctions of mechanical equipment and the methods of repairing them; preventive maintenance measures for Port electrical equipment; testing instruments such as digital and analog volt-ohm meters, clamp-on meters, meggers, dial indicators, and pressure test gauges; State and departmental safety rules, regulations, and practices including, pertinent provisions of the Los Angeles City Electrical Code, Cal/OSHA Title 8 Electrical Safety Rules, California Electrical Code, National Electrical Code, National Electric Safety Code, California Electrical Safety Orders, and Port Hazardous Energy Control Program; principles and practices of supervision, including, assigning, motivating, disciplining,  training, and evaluating the work of subordinates in order to serve as a functional supervisor; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures including Equal Employment Opportunity policy and Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) as they relate to subordinate personnel; and the ability to direct and coordinate the work of groups of employees engaged in a variety of electrical, mechanical and rigging activities; effectively manage time and prioritize assignments; communicate effectively, both orally and in writing; accurately interpret and follow written and verbal instructions; deal tactfully and effectively with subordinates, other employees, tenants, and the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

At the time of the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Senior Port Electrical Mechanic. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates who fail to complete the advisory essay may be disqualified. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their advisory essay responses.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of OCTOBER 31, 2016 to NOVEMBER 11, 2016. 

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous City service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
6. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 3847 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07-29-16 REV 08-11-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER  

