SENIOR ARCHITECT

Class Code:       7927
Open Date:  02-03-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$105,444 to $149,981
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $125,760 to $156,245

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Senior Architect plans, organizes and directs, or assists in directing, the work of professional and technical employees engaged in providing architectural services for City facilities; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid professional experience as an Architect with the City of Los Angeles; and
2. A valid California Architect license issued by the California Architects Board. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all candidates must complete the Senior Architect Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Senior Architect Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions of the City Application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Applicants must submit a valid California Architect license issued by the California Architects Board at the time of filing. This license is required as a condition of employment as a Senior Architect. A copy of the license must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the license is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the California Architect license at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.  
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and Qualification Questionnaires will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
											Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of experience and personal qualifications by interview. During the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's knowledge of: design principles such as safety, function, and aesthetics sufficient to incorporate them when preparing design programs and architectural designs of projects; building materials such as steel, concrete, and wood and their uses sufficient to approve the way they are used in project designs; contracting laws such as lien, licensing, insurance and guarantee laws and procedures such as bonding, submittals, and adherence to minority owned business and women owned business requirements; contract administration procedures such as pay authorizations, change requests, change orders, and handling of bonds and insurance documents; safety principles, regulations, and CAL/OSHA requirements; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures including the City's Equal Employment Opportunity policy and Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) as they relate to subordinate personnel; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including directing, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending and evaluating the work of subordinates; and the ability to plan, organize, direct, control, evaluate, and provide strategic direction as required to oversee professional and technical staff engaged in architectural activities; plan and prioritize jobs and assignments; provide estimates of time, schedule, and cost for various projects; evaluate and select consulting architects, engineers, and contractors; determine and approve the contents of manual and computer databases for building elements, standard details, designs, building costs, and materials; communicate technical information to both non-technical and technical audiences; interpret and apply pertinent City, disability, housing, zoning, building, construction, fire, and safety codes, standards and regulations; interpret and review reports from subordinates, site surveys, general conditions and legal requirements of construction documents; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

As part of the interview, candidates will be required to present to the interview board a portfolio with samples of their design and construction work.  While the interviewers will not assign a separate score to the samples, the interviewers will consider the quality of the samples in their overall evaluations of the candidate's qualifications.  Candidates should expect the interviewers to discuss the samples with them during their interviews.  All samples will be returned to the candidates after the conclusion of their interviews.  

Specific information regarding the portfolio of design and construction samples to be presented to the interview board will be e-mailed to those candidates invited to participate in the interview.  

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of MAY 1, 2017 TO MAY 12, 2017.

Prior to the interview, Candidates will be required to prepare some written material on a topic related to the duties and responsibilities of a Senior Architect. This essay material will not be scored separately, but will be presented to the interview panel for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate.  In addition, as part of the evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will also consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the interview board.

Candidates must complete the advisory essay.  Those who do not complete the advisory essay will not be invited to the interview and will be considered to have failed the entire examination.  Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the advisory essay session, which will be held in a single half day session on SATURDAY, APRIL 8, 2017, in Los Angeles. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their responses to the advisory essay.


NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.


THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS ONLY


The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7927. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 02-03-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


