SENIOR WINDOW CLEANER
Class Code:       3174
Open Date:  01-31-14
Revised   02-13-14

ANNUAL SALARY 

$44,223 to $54,956
The salary in the Los Angeles World Airports is $48,629 to $60,426.

DUTIES

A Senior Window Cleaner supervises and participates in the work of a group of Window Cleaners engaged in washing and cleaning windows, including windows which are at considerable heights and/or not easily accessible for cleaning.

REQUIREMENT

Two years of full-time paid experience in a position at least at the level of Window Cleaner which provides experience in the inside and outside cleaning of windows above the ground floor.

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application form, each candidate is required to complete the Senior Window Cleaner Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Senior Window Cleaner Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience is met.
3. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if within the past 36 months they were convicted of a major moving violation, such as driving under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs, and may be disqualified if there are three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents within the past 36 months. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2014.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from January 31, 2014 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

EXPERT REVIEW COMMITTEE

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, an expert review committee may be assembled to evaluate each candidate's qualifications for the position of Senior Window Cleaner. In this evaluation, the expert review committee will assess each candidate's training and experience based upon the information in the candidate's City employment application and the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered by the expert review committee as possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Senior Window Cleaner, based solely on the information presented to the committee, will be invited to participate in the interview. 

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

Your examination score will be based entirely on an evaluation by interview of the adequacy of your training and experience in providing the knowledge of: window cleaning methods and techniques; specific types and use of knots; safety procedures as related to equipment, work site safety codes and hazardous materials; supervisory rules and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity; and the ability to lead, plan, and coordinate the work of a small group of employees engaged in window cleaning work; make routine judgments; recognize various cleaning tools and equipment; proper use of safety equipment; detect potential hazards or defects in equipment; read and interpret material safety data sheets; make critical decisions during emergency situations; follow written instructions in order to perform assignments; analyze data and make appropriate recommendations; keep accurate records and prepare reports; deal tactfully and effectively with others; effectively communicate orally with co-workers and supervisors, clients, and public; resolve conflict effectively; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of APRIL 7, 2014 through APRIL 18, 2014. Candidates will be notified later by mail regarding the date, time and location of the interviews which will be held in Los Angeles.  

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3174. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 01-31-14

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER



