SENIOR ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE INSPECTOR

  Class Code:      4293
  Open Date: 04-29-16
Revised: 05-19-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$67,338 to $98,449

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change.  You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting the job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Senior Environmental Compliance Inspector supervises a group of Environmental Compliance Inspectors engaged in inspecting and investigating industrial and commercial facilities, writing inspection and investigation reports, assessing the composition of industrial waste discharged into City sewers to assure conformance with regulations governing disposal of industrial wastes, conducting investigations and enforcement activities associated with illicit discharges and connections to the sewer and storm drain system, environmental monitoring for private and public solid waste handling facilities such as sanitary landfills, composting facilities and transfer stations; providing on-site contract management support and customer care for the solid waste franchise program; controlling and maintaining landfill gas collection systems and flaring equipment; performs the more difficult inspections, investigations, enforcement actions, and interactions with the public and contractors; makes recommendations on program policies and procedures; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective workforce; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT

Two years of full-time paid experience as an Environmental Compliance Inspector with the City of Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California's driver's license is required.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
3. Upon appointment, a Senior Environmental Compliance Inspector will be required to furnish an automobile, properly insured, for use in City service.  Mileage will be paid according to established rates.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2016.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:	Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying 
	Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire and an interview.  In the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: types of toxins and wastes which may be produced and discharged into wastewater systems by various industries; wastewater treatment and collection systems and the effects of industrial pollution; Federal, State, and City standards for industrial waste inspection and pretreatment of pollutants; pretreatment methods set by Environmental Protection Agency (EPA); legal requirements needed to document violations; procedures and requirements for issuing industrial waste disposal permits and collecting delinquent fees; test used to evaluate chemicals affecting the pH balance; chemicals and equipment used to destroy pollutants; EPA approved procedures and OSHA regulations for collecting, handling, and preserving samples, including chain of custody documentation; recycling, composting and disposal of solid waste; potential hazards, problems and solutions for commonly used treatment of industrial waste disposal methods, including disposing of solid wastes in landfills, handling and storage of hazardous or toxic materials, solid resources, and commingled recycled organic and solid waste; procedures and techniques of the State Hazardous Materials Technician training; safety principles and practices, including safety equipment and emergency spill response procedures; pertinent provisions of the Federal Clean Water Act, Porter Cologne Act, Los Angeles Municipal Code, Penal Code and Federal Department of Transportation regulations; homeless encampment cleanup and protocols; methods used to calculate liquid waste discharge using information from available data; scales and units used for measurements, including the metric system; physical science sufficient to predict the effects of recommended changes; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) and MOU provisions pertinent to subordinate personnel; and the ability to operate wastewater treatment equipment, including 5-gas detector, PIDS, and pH meters; perform and implement tests used at landfill sites; perform calculations related to industrial waste inspection; read and interpret diagrams and plans to calculate volumes of waste discharge; read spreadsheets to interpret trends; read, interpret, and locate City, State, and Federal laws, ordinances, codes, and regulations relating to industrial waste disposal; prepare reports; plan subordinates' work assignments in a way which makes the best use of staff time and employee's abilities; direct and coordinate the work of groups of employees engaged in inspection and investigation activities; prepare reports using text and database reporting; write letters and memos sufficient to communicate technical information to others; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

The qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation.  The expert review panel will assign a numeric score for each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications as described on the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire.  Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the expert review panel.

Passing Score for the Qualifying Test

The passing score for the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying test is administered.  Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years.  Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the time and location of the written test. The qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, JULY 16, 2016, in Los Angeles. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their responses to the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire in order to be invited to the interview.
	
The examination score will be based entirely on the interview.  In the interview, candidates may be examined for the knowledge of: types of wastes produced by various industries; methods and requirements for the handling and storage of hazardous or toxic materials and solid wastes; EPA and OSHA approved procedures for collecting, handling, and preserving samples, including chain of custody documentation; pretreatment methods set by Environmental Protection Agency (EPA); chemicals used to destroy pollutants, including chemicals used to adjust pH; potential hazards and regulations for disposing solid wastes; hazardous materials categorization of abandoned chemical waste; solutions for problems used in treatment of industrial waste; wastewater treatment and collection systems; frequently used provisions of the City, State, and Federal laws, ordinances, codes, and regulations relating to industrial waste inspection;  state environmental protection laws and regulations; procedures and requirements for issuing industrial waste disposal permits; peace officer duties acquired through 40 hours of P.O.S.T training; enforcement procedures for issuing notices of violation; public safety sampling procedures and health hazard determination methods; safety principles and regulations, including emergency spill response procedures; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) and Memoranda of Understanding pertinent to subordinate personnel;  and the ability to implement tests used at landfill sites; read and interpret City, department, and OSHA regulations; use a personal computer or computer terminal; plan and schedule inspections done at appropriate intervals for each type of location; use information received from complaints, work assignments, previous experience and other sources to assign priorities to both scheduled and unanticipated jobs; perform screen hotline calls and coordinate resources; perform the duties of an incident commander during an emergency response; notice details in immediate surroundings; direct and coordinate the work of groups of employees; interact with others with perseverance, patience, and tact when explaining and enforcing requirements and regulations; plan work assignments based on time permitted and employee's abilities; communicate in writing for the purpose of persuading others to adopt a specific opinion or course of action; communicate orally in an effective manner sufficient to discuss technical information with others; deal tactfully and effectively with employees and the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

NOTES:
 
1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the qualifying written test will not be subject to candidate inspection. 
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% on the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous City service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. The incumbents of some positions in this class may be required to pass an annual or periodic work fitness evaluation to determine their eligibility for continued employment in this class.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY 
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 4293 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04-29-16 REV 05-19-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

