SENIOR GARDENER

Class Code:       3143
Open Date:  12-15-17
                                                  (Exam Open to Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$44,411 to $63,182
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $63,663 to $79,072 and $78,300 to $82,663 

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Senior Gardener performs skilled gardening and irrigation work; assigns, reviews, and evaluates the work of employees engaged in routine gardening, ground maintenance and irrigation work in a City park, recreation area, golf course, nursery, the grounds of public buildings, Citywide traffic islands, medians, slopes, grade separations, and other landscaped areas; applies sound supervisory techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills workplace diversity responsibilities.

NOTE: 

The work performed by an employee of this class may require exposure to vehicular traffic, rain, wind and other weather conditions.

  REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience in the propagation, care or maintenance of plants, flowers, shrubs, trees and lawns; or
2. One year of full-time paid experience in the propagation, care or maintenance of plants, flowers, shrubs, trees and lawns and 30 semester or 45 quarter units from an accredited college or university with at least two courses in horticulture, botany, or  related fields.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 must list course titles, number of semester/quarter units, completion dates, name and location of the college or university for each course claimed as qualifying in the test box which will appear in the Supplemental Questions section of the online application.
3. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
4. Some positions may require a Qualified Applicator's License.
5. Some positions in DWP may require working under and around energized equipment.
6. Some positions may require a valid California Class C or B driver's license prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the past 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as a DUI). 
7. For positions requiring a valid California Class B driver's license, candidates must submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1808.1 and a valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles, prior to appointment. 


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 



NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, DECEMBER 28, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written Test. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
			                       Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

In the qualifying written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: skilled gardening work (defined as knowledge of planting, pruning, watering practices, care, and maintenance of trees, shrubs, flowers, ground cover and turf grasses; methods in preparing a seed bed; types of fertilizers, mulches, and soil amendments and their proper use; methods of transplanting trees and shrubs; common names of a variety of trees, shrubs, and other plants used in Southern California; types of plants which should be planted in Los Angeles climate including drought-resistant plants; types of herbicides and their application for the control of weeds; use, methods, and maintenance of a variety of hand and power gardening tools and equipment; sprinkler systems including minor installation and repair work; service and maintenance of spray equipment); types of cleaning agents, equipment and their application to clean facilities; safety rules and practices applicable to landscape and horticultural work including provisions of CAL/OSHA and first aid; basic arithmetic; proper English grammar, usage, and spelling; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity responsibilities and Memoranda of Understanding of subordinate personnel; and the ability to: identify grasses, shrubs, plants, and trees that have been damaged by pests or diseases; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the time and location of the qualifying written test which will be held on SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2018 in Los Angeles.  

Passing Score for Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score in the qualifying written test in order to be called for the interview.

Your examination score will be based entirely on your professional and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training, and professional development as they demonstrate knowledge of: skilled gardening work as defined above; safety rules and practices applicable to landscape and horticultural work including provisions of CAL/OSHA and first aid; fundamental principles and practices of supervision, including planning, organizing, coordinating, assigning, motivating, training, counseling, disciplining, commending, and evaluating the work of subordinates; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity responsibilities and Memoranda of Understanding of subordinate personnel; and ability to communication in writing; keep routine records; deal tactfully and effectively with subordinates, supervisors, City personnel, and the public; and  communicate orally one to one and one to a group.  

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. 

NOTES:

1. The examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. The incumbents of some positions in this class may be required to pass an annual or periodic work fitness evaluation to determine their eligibility for continued employment in this class. 	

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 3143 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-15-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


