SENIOR COMMUNICATIONS CABLE WORKER

Class Code:       3801
Open Date:  10-21-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$89,784 to $111,540 

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Senior Communications Cable Worker acts as lead for, trains, and works with Communications Cable Workers and Assistant Communications Cable Workers doing skilled work in the installation, splicing, termination, maintenance, changing, removal, location of trouble, and repair of outside plant overhead and underground fiber optic and paired copper communications cables, lines, and appurtenant equipment including the telephone, data, alarm, carrier, supervisory, telemetry, and control circuits contained within these cables and lines; coordinates work group activities with others; demonstrates safety policies.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Two years of full-time paid experience as a Communications Cable Worker with the City of Los Angeles.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Senior Communications Cable Worker Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Senior Communications Cable Worker Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Senior Communications Cable Workers are required to climb unstepped poles and work in vaults and maintenance holes in the proximity of high voltage and are subject to the hazards of such work.
4. Candidates must have good color vision.
5. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
6. Some positions may require a valid California Class B (or A) driver's license and valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles, prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 


NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2016.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Interview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the candidate's experience and training as it relates to the knowledge of: principles of electricity such as resistance, capacitance and inductance sufficient to install, repair and maintain communication cables; method of pulling cable through underground conduits and overhead cable installation and equipment; types of communication cables sufficient to treat, install, maintain, and repair each type appropriately; repair techniques used on cables, open wires, and guy wires; splice enclosures and their purposes; methods and materials used to terminate cable; methods and techniques for pulling, fusing, connecting and testing fiber optic cable for breaks, damage, and ability to transmit signals at required decibel level; safe working procedures for working on overhead communication cables and underground communications lines; regulations regarding friable asbestos including proper precautions; safety equipment and emergency equipment useful at work sites; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures including Equal Employment Opportunity sufficient to act as a lead worker; the ability to splice wires in cable used to join cable ends sufficient to make circuits complete, repair cables, or  install various equipment; read and use job orders, circuit books, maps, and prints to identify circuits and locations for job orders; direct assign and train the work of crew members; to determine the equipment needed by each work crew sufficient to ensure that crews have the proper tools, equipment and transportation; act as a lead worker for a group of employees engaged in skilled work installing, repairing and maintaining communications cables, lines and equipment; monitor several projects and make decisions on a priority basis; deal tactfully and effectively with others; communicate effectively with helpers, supervisors, Department representatives, and outside contractors; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JANUARY 30, 2017 to FEBRUARY 10, 2017.

If six or fewer qualified candidates file for this examination, the examination may consist solely of a review of applications conducted by Personnel Department staff.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Based on City policy, you may be required to undergo a mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required in the interview to be placed on the eligible list.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY 
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3801 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10-21-16


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

