SENIOR ANIMAL KEEPER

Class Code:		   4305
Open Date:  02-26-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$48,964 to $69,656

NOTES:

1. A Senior Animal Keeper is subject to working nights, holidays and weekends on a rotating shift basis at various animal exhibits to meet department needs.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Senior Animal Keeper assigns, reviews and evaluates the work of employees engaged in caring for exotic mammals, birds, venomous and non-venomous reptiles, and amphibians at the Los Angeles Zoo; performs the more difficult and responsible work in caring for animals; maintains the exhibit premises in a clean and aesthetically pleasing manner; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS

Two years of full-time paid experience at the level of an Animal Keeper responsible for the care of exotic mammals, birds, venomous or non-venomous reptiles, or amphibians.

Successful completion of a minimum of 30 semester or 45 quarter units from an accredited college or university including 8 semester units or 12 quarter units in the biological sciences, with courses in zoology or biology, may be substituted for one year of the required experience.  (Courses must be listed in the Supplemental Questions section of the application form.)

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found athttp://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
4. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree and/or coursework. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 2016.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight: Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's experience, training, and professional qualifications as they provide the background needed to perform the duties of a Senior Animal Keeper, including knowledge of methods of feeding various animals in the zoo; natural environment of an animal necessary for feeding, planning, or rearranging exhibits; animal behavior necessary for recognizing normal and abnormal behavior; animal behavior and exhibit materials necessary for designing exhibits; capture equipment and proper methods of capturing and restraining animals; methods of protecting the zoo animals from pest and other animals; kinds of crates appropriate for crating various zoo animals; USDA, CAL-OSHA, and other regulatory provisions applicable to the zoo; methods of avoiding accidents; basic first-aid procedures and practices; animal inflicted injury procedures; behavioral/environmental enrichment principles and methods; basic computer skills, including proficiency with word processing, e-mail and Internet use at minimum; ability to: recognize when an animal is in danger of injury; recognize when an animal needs chemical immobilization; instruct employees to use proper safety precautions; give instructions about tasks and assign tasks to subordinates; receive instructions from others and pass them on to subordinates; recognize and recommend appropriate corrections for unsafe conditions for animals, workers, and maintenance employees; apply knowledge of animals in a variety of situations; command respect of and motivate through words, actions, and policies; read, understand, and follow written directions; recognize maintenance needs of an animal exhibit; work closely with Curator, Veterinarian, and/or General Curator, and/or others in the recapture of escaped animals; recognize signs that an animal is recuperating and ready to be put back on exhibit; recognize when an animal is dangerous to other animals or at risk; remain calm, make quick decisions and direct others in emergency situations; work around animal odors, collecting animal waste, seeing animals bleed, and other normally distasteful features of working around zoo animals; perform extensive walking around zoo areas and climbing; climbing ladders, jumping fences, and moving quickly under emergency conditions; effectively and timely communicate, both orally and written, with superiors, subordinates and other divisions; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time and location of the interviews which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of APRIL 25, 2016 to MAY 06, 2016.

NOTES:	

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


Class Code. 4305 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .02-26-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
	

