SHEET METAL WORKER

Class Code:       3775
Open Date:  09-30-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$86,777(flat-rated)
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $76,692 to $95,275

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Sheet Metal Worker performs skilled work in layout, fabrication, assembly, installation and repair of a variety of sheet metal parts and equipment, including commercial truck parts and panels, boxes, lockers, cabinets, shelves, table tops, sinks, range hoods, rain gutters, downspouts, flashings, fluid tanks and air-conditioning ventilating ducts; and in the maintenance, installation, adjustment and repair of duct work, filters, blowers and forced-air heating, cooling and ventilating control devices and systems; occasionally performs arc, gas, and MIG welding; and calibrates pneumatic controls and performs air balancing.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS 

1. Completion of a recognized apprenticeship as a sheet metal worker; or
2. Five years of full-time paid experience in sheet metal work.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
3. Applicants filing under Requirement Number 1 must submit a copy of their apprenticeship certificate at the time of filing.  The copy of the certificate must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination. 
4. Based on City Policy, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
5. Based on California Code of Regulations, all incumbents are required to wear a Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA) under hazardous and emergency conditions. Therefore, all employees in this class must be able to wear the SCBA in a safe and appropriate manner.
6. Incumbents of some positions in this class may be required to pass an annual or periodic work fitness evaluation to determine their eligibility for continued employment in this class.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional
Examinations.


NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2016.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from September 30, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination score will be based entirely on a multiple-choice test. In the written test, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of: practices, procedures and materials used in the fabrication, assembly, installation and repair of a variety of articles used in sheet metal work; functions, operations, and maintenance of power and manually-operated machines and other power and hand tools common to the trade; practices and procedures of soldering, riveting, and forming seams as related to sheet metal; practices and procedures used in pattern development (drafting) as applied to the layout of a variety of articles made from metals; safety practices and procedures applicable to sheet-metal-work activities; procedures used to calculate bending allowances of common metals used in sheet metal work; geometry and arithmetic sufficient to take field measurements and prepare working drawings and sketches; and the ability to read and interpret blueprints and drawings pertaining to sheet metal work; lay out patterns using the methods of triangulation, radial line development, parallel line development and mensuration; follow written instructions; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be held in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2016, in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
8. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.  

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3775 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9-30-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

