SHIFT SUPERINTENDENT WASTEWATER TREATMENT	

	                       								Class Code:       7242
																											Open Date:  07-24-15
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$96,444 to $119,830 and $101,810 to $126,491

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Shift Superintendent Wastewater Treatment supervises the operating activities of a wastewater treatment facility; plans, coordinates, and directs the work of technical employees engaged in activities necessary to operate various treatment processes and related wastewater treatment equipment; applies sound supervisory principles in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.
 
REQUIREMENTS

1. Two years of full-time paid supervisory experience in a class at the level of a Senior Wastewater Treatment Operator, managing employees engaged in wastewater treatment operations; or
2. Two years of full-time paid supervisory and process engineering experience in a class at the level of an Environmental Engineering Associate III, managing employees engaged in wastewater treatment operations.

NOTES:		

1. Candidates must have, at a minimum, a Grade IV Operator Certification for the Operation of Wastewater Treatment Plants from the State of California Water Resources Control Board at the time of appointment.
2. A Grade V Operator Certification for the Operation of Wastewater Treatment Plants from the State of California Water Resources Control Board is required prior to completion of probation.
3. To be at the level of an Environmental Engineering Associate III, registration as a professional engineer with the California State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers is required.
4. A "full-time supervisor" performs the full range of supervisory duties, which include assigning and reviewing work, approving vacation and sick time, completing and signing employee evaluations.
5. Based on California Code of Regulations, Departmental Regulations require the wearing of a Self Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA) under hazardous and emergency conditions.  Therefore, as a condition of employment, all employees in this class must be able to wear the SCBA in a safe and appropriate manner.
6. A valid California driver's license is required.  Applicants are not eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
7. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted online. When you are viewing the online job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. Online job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations and at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations.




APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from July 24, 2015, in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of personal and professional qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis will be placed on an evaluation of the nature and adequacy of the candidate's background, experience and training as they have provided the ability to perform the duties of a Shift Superintendent Wastewater Treatment, including knowledge of: civil, mechanical, sanitary and chemical engineering; operation and maintenance of wastewater and water reclamation plant equipment and facilities; plant and equipment safety principles and practices, including CAL/OSHA and Workers' Compensation; supervisory principles and practices, including equal employment opportunity; the ability to prepare accurate and concise reports; recommend operational changes necessary to improve the efficiency of wastewater and water reclamation plants; direct and coordinate the operational activities of wastewater and water reclamation plants and solve operational problems; deal tactfully and effectively with subordinates, co-workers and the public; effectively communicate verbally and in writing; and other necessary knowledge, skills and abilities.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that the interviews for this examination will begin during the period of SEPTEMBER 21, 2015 to OCTOBER 2, 2015.

NOTES:

1. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. A final score of 70% on the interview is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous City service will be added to the weighted test score of each promotional candidate.
5. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
8. Appointments to a position in this class are subject to a one-year probationary period under provisions of Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 
10. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7242 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .07-24-15

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

