SIGNAL SYSTEMS ELECTRICIAN		  
Class Code:       3819
Open Date:  04-20-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$90,645 (flat-rated)

NOTE:

Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Signal Systems Electrician performs skilled technical work and may act as a lead for and work with a signal construction or signal systems crew installing, repairing, maintaining, and modifying electric and microprocessor based traffic signal control devices and video and computer communications systems.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Completion of a recognized apprenticeship as an electrician, which provides experience or training in electrical or electronic control work; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience as an Assistant Signal Systems Electrician with the City of Los Angeles or two years of full-time paid experience performing electrical or electronics control work. Both require 18 semester units or 27 quarter units in electrical or electronic technology, such as Basic Electrical and Electronics Theory, Solid State Devices and Circuitry, Digital Electronics, and Microprocessors and Microcomputers from an accredited college or trade school; or
3. Four years of full-time paid experience as an Electrical Craft Helper with the City of Los Angeles and completion of the educational requirements specified in requirement #2.

Successful completion of a military electrician or electronics course of 24 weeks or longer may be substituted for the educational requirement specified in Requirement #2. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 must attach a copy of their Apprenticeship Certificate at the time of filing. A copy of the Apprenticeship Certificate must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If a copy of the Apprenticeship Certificate is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it, and WILL NOT be considered further in this examination. 
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 must list the school name and location, course titles, number of semester or quarter units, and completion dates in the Supplemental Question Section of the on-line application. Applicants who fail to provide this information on their application will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed. 
3. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. A valid California Class B driver's license and valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles is required prior to the completion of the six month probationary period. Candidates will be asked to submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVS Section 1808.1.
5. A Rubber Tired Tractor B Operator's license and a Hydrocrane Operator's license may be required for some positions. Prior to appointment to these positions, candidates must submit the appropriate licenses and a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVS Section 1808.1.
6. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. 
7. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree and/or coursework.

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require special skills and/or training in one or more of the following areas. Only persons possessing the following at the time of filing may be considered for appointment to fill such positions.

A valid state certified Crane Operator Certification.


NOTE:

The copy of the certification must be attached to the on-line application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the copy of the certification is attached AFTER the on-line application has been submitted, applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it, and WILL NOT be considered further for positions requiring the certification. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

This examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. For administrative purposes, filing may close periodically and reopen periodically.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the weighted written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:
	
Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of a weighted written test. In the weighted written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, the following competencies may be evaluated: Reading Comprehension, Judgment and Decision Making, Equipment Operation, Mechanical Aptitude, Interpersonal Skills, Electrical Understanding, including electrical principles and concepts such as Ohm's Law and Kirchhoff's Law; Safety Focus, including: traffic control and safety standards for pedestrian and vehicular traffic as required by the Work Area Traffic Control Handbook (WATCH); safety procedures and equipment required when working with or around medium and high voltage electrical equipment; ladder safety requirements as required by the California Occupational Safety and Health Administration; Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: specifications and standards related to wiring, grounding, loop installation, pole use, and mounting of signal heads as required by the Standard Specification for Public Works Construction Manual and Special Provisions and Standard Drawings for Installation and Modification of Traffic Signals; the standards and requirements of the National Electric Code (NEC) including wiring color codes, wire sizes, and types of connectors, cables, and conductors used in signal work; hand, power, and pneumatic tools, measuring devices, and boom accessories used to install, construct, maintain, and repair traffic signal equipment; tools and methods used for splicing wires; the functions and proper installation of peripheral devices such as loop sensors, AC/DC isolators, and railroad and bus preemption modules; digital data interconnect systems including the Automated Traffic Surveillance and Control (ATSAC) system and the operation, design, and function of modems, data scopes, conditioned data lines, transmission impairment measurement sets, and bit error rate test sets; types, uses, and functions of electrical test equipment; the Institute of Traffic Engineers (ITE) symbols, standards, and terminology for traffic signal devices; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Signal Systems Electrician.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the weighted written test, which will be held in a single half-day session in Los Angeles. The first date scheduled for the weighted written test is SATURDAY, JUNE 30, 2018. Additional test dates may be added as needed.
		
NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. You may take the Signal Systems Electrician written test only once every 365 days. 
5. Your name may be removed from the open competitive list after six (6) months.
6. Your rank on the employment list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of this examination are merged onto one list. 
7. Based on City Policy, before being hired in one of these positions, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol screening test.
8. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
9. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
10. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
11. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE: 

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3819 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .04-20-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to:  http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

