SOCIAL WORKER
                                                                                                                        Class Code:       2385
	                                                                                                   Open Date:  10-27-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$58,171 to $85,044; $68,611 to $100,307; and $81,035 to $118,473.

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade position. 

DUTIES

A Social Worker performs a variety of professional social work tasks involving individuals, families, groups and communities; provides information and assistance to program recipients, caregivers and other professionals providing services to clients; performs continuing client assessment, diagnosis and treatment plans for various social services programs; may assign, review and evaluate the work of a group of employees engaged in delivering social services, including applying sound supervisory principles and techniques including building and maintaining an effective work force and fulfilling equal employment opportunity responsibilities, and personally conducts clinical assessments.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a degree in social work, social welfare, gerontology or psychology. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
2. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. 
3. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying four-year degree. 

SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010(b) and Civil Service Commission Rule 5.31, some positions will require specific education and experience.  Only persons meeting the criteria described below may be considered for appointment from the eligible list to fill those positions which require the necessary education and experience.	    

1. A Master's degree in social work (program must be accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of the Council of Social Work Education), social welfare, gerontology or psychology, and two years full-time professional social work experience working in a social service agency, clinic, hospital or public agency.
2. A Master's Degree in social work, an active and valid license as a Licensed Clinical Social Worker issued by the California Board of Behavioral Sciences, and five years of full-time professional social work experience, three years of which must provide clinical supervisory experience working in a social service agency, clinic, hospital or public agency.   (Please provide your LCSW license number in the Supplemental Questions of the City application.)

 
WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at 
https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 09, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from October 27, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELELCTION PROCESS

After meeting the minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100% 

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of training and experience questionnaire wherein candidates may be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background, personal qualifications as they have provided the necessary skills and knowledge of: purposeful interviewing, assessment, diagnosis, planning treatment, and outcome evaluation; community services and programs available to seniors, youth, family and other community members; problems, needs and attitudes of citizens, youth, families, persons with disabilities and other community members, principles of community organizations and social service program development; general principles of social and/or behavioral sciences; supervisory principles and practice; techniques of training, instructing and evaluating subordinate' work performance; and the ability to: assess and analyze the needs and problems of targeted client groups and develop appropriate alternatives and solutions; organize a comprehensive, consistent, and thorough follow-up system evaluating whether clients received the services they need; work independently and complete assignments from general instructions; interview clients and conduct comprehensive assessments; plan, organize, and direct the activities of staff; prepare and deliver clear and concise written and oral reports, evaluations, presentations, and recommendations; develop and maintain cooperative working relationships with community organizations and groups; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities. 

The Training and Experience Questionnaire for all candidates will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications as described on the Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the expert review panel.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the test. The Training and Experience Questionnaire will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, JANUARY 13, 2018 in Los Angeles. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their responses to the Training and Experience Questionnaire. 

NOTES:	

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
2. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated in the bulletin.
4. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required timeframe; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment for the eligible list.

NOTICE: 

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON AN
OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 2385 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10-27-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


