STEAM PLANT OPERATOR


Class Code:       5624
Open Date:  10-14-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)


ANNUAL SALARY

$92,665; and $103,460 (flat-rated) 

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Steam Plant Operator oversees and participates in the operations of electric-generating equipment from remote control boards and from actual equipment locations including turbines, generators, high-pressure boilers, auxiliary equipment, and electrical switching facilities. 

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION 

Three years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Steam Plant Assistant, one year of which must be as a Station Equipment Operator or Controls Mechanic in the independent operation and inspection of mechanical and electrical equipment at a steam-electric generating plant.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement has been met.
2. Only applicants who currently or have previously worked in the Department of Water and Power as Steam Plant Assistants in DDR (Duties Description Record) number 82-56017 or in DDR number 82-38096 will meet the required one year of experience as a Station Equipment Operator or Controls Mechanic to qualify for this examination. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.



APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2016.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Written Test  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination score will be based entirely on a written test comprised of multiple-choice questions, in which the candidate may be examined for knowledge of: electrical systems related to steam plant operation; Systems Operating Orders 1, 2, 5 and 8, which include procedures for tagging, handling high voltage equipment, filling out forms, guidelines for clearances, preventive maintenance, isolation equipment jurisdiction, and protection of personnel and equipment; equipment used in steam generation; principles of electricity; mechanical engineering and thermodynamic principles including lubrication, friction, and forces; chemical reactions in steam generation; Equipment Reading Sheets; information regarding the initiation, distribution, and handling of Faulty Equipment Requests, lock out/tag out procedures, and procedures for safe equipment isolation; safety practices and procedures including the safe operation of equipment, storage and handling of volatile liquids, working with high voltages and in confined spaces, and other personal protective equipment according to the Department of Water and Power Safety Handbook; communication systems used in steam plants; Plant Procedures Manual; and the ability to: read and interpret schematic diagrams, valves, controls, relays, switches, trips, running logic, and preventive logic; react in emergency situations; effectively solve problems using appropriate conflict resolution skills; communicate  and deal tactfully, appropriately, and effectively with others; provide training to subordinates to ensure safe operation of a steam plant; direct and supervise the work of subordinates; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, JANUARY 14, 2017, in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate. 
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 5624 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10-14-16


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

