STEAM PLANT ASSISTANT

Class Code:       5622
Open Date:  05-11-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$60,405 to $75,042 and $70,219 to $87,257

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Steam Plant Assistant assists in either operating, maintaining, or repairing steam electric generating plant equipment, including mechanical, electrical control and instrumentation, and auxiliary equipment.

SPECIAL INFORMATION

1. All entry-level positions have been designated as temporary training positions in accordance with Civil Service Rule 5.30. A Steam Plant Assistant must successfully complete a four-year intensive on-the-job and classroom training program in order to receive an appointment to a regular Steam Plant Assistant position. 
2. A Steam Plant Assistant receives intensive on-the-job training as well as formalized training outside of working hours.
3. A Steam Plant Assistant is subject to working nights, holidays and weekends on a rotating shift basis at various work locations throughout the City's power system.
4. The relaying of instructions and complex technological information over the telephone and in person, in normal situations and under emergency conditions, requires that candidates be able to communicate orally in English in a clear and understandable manner.
5. See the corresponding "Job Preview" for additional information regarding the duties of a Steam Plant Assistant in a trainee and/or regular position. The Job Preview is available on-line at http://per.lacity.org/exams/5622preview.pdf.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Completion of at least eight months in the Utility Pre-Craft Trainee training program sponsored by the Department of Water and Power; or 
2. Successful completion of three semester units or four quarter units from an accredited college or university or trade school in physics, chemistry, electricity, or electronics; or
3. Successful completion of one year of high school level course work in physics, chemistry, electricity, or electronics; or 
4. Completion of the Hayden Electricity course sponsored by the Department of Water and Power; or
5. One year of full-time paid experience in electrical or mechanical work involving the operation, maintenance, or repair of large machinery as found in an engine room on board a ship or in an electric generating plant, or electrical generating and distribution equipment such as found in an electric generating plant or receiving and distribution stations, or electrical distribution systems, including those of major industrial facilities such as oil refineries, chemical plants, or water treatment plants.


PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 who lack two months or less of the required training and experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until completion of at least eight months in the Utility Pre-Craft Trainee training program, as indicated in Requirement #1.
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #2, #3, or #4 must list the course name(s), completion date(s), name of the institution attended, and number of units in the Supplemental Question section on the City application.
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #5 who lack six months or less of the required training and experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full training and experience requirement is met. 
4. Candidates who successfully pass the written portion of the examination must be made aware that CAL/OSHA and Department of Water and Power Safety Regulations require that Steam Plant Assistant candidates MUST complete a medical examination administered by the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (LADWP) Medical Office and must be physically capable of handling personal protective equipment, such as respiratory equipment. After selected candidates complete the Steam Plant Assistant evaluation class, they must pass a respiratory equipment fit test conducted by the LADWP Safety Office as a condition of employment.
5. Normal depth perception and color vision is required.
6. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
7. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying coursework.
8. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 24, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:   Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of a multiple-choice written test. In the written test, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: basic mathematics; mechanical aptitude; and the ability to: understand the operation, function, and interdependence of equipment; work safely and recognize potentially dangerous situations when working with electrical systems on mercury or other potentially dangerous substances; communicate complicated technical information; read manuals and simple symbol diagrams; perceive pertinent detail when reading multiple charts and gauges; think and work independently; analyze situations, think through problems, and find appropriate solutions; perform routine tasks with minimal supervision; perform computer-based operations using relevant software programs; understand and follow written instructions; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session in Los Angeles. The first date scheduled for the written test is Saturday, July 7, 2018. Additional tests may be added, if necessary.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated in this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. Based on City Policy, before being hired in this position, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol screening test.
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required timeframe; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON AN
OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 5622 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05-11-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

