STREET SERVICES SUPERINTENDENT

Class Code:        4158
Open Date:   10-19-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$85,816 to $125,447 and $94,628 to $138,371

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed only to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Street Services Superintendent directs or assists in directing general or specialized street maintenance activities such as resurfacing or pavement preservation for a large geographical area; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid supervisory experience with the City of Los Angeles in a class at the level of Street Services Supervisor in street construction, street maintenance, asphalt plant operation, street resurfacing or special street maintenance projects; or
2. Two years of full-time paid supervisory experience as a Senior Street Services Investigator with the City of Los Angeles; or
3. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Civil Engineering Associate II, III, or IV with the City of Los Angeles performing or directing field engineering activities related to the design, specification, construction, maintenance, inspection and operation of projects concerning the public right-of-way; or
4. Six years of full-time paid experience in street construction, street maintenance, asphalt plant operation, street resurfacing or special street maintenance projects, with two of the six years supervising crews performing street maintenance activities.

PROCESS NOTES 

1. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
2. Completion of a Street Maintenance Technology program from Los Angeles Trade-Tech College or an associate's degree from an accredited college is desired.
3. Street resurfacing experience is desired, but not required.
4. After appointment, employees of this class may be required to furnish their own automobiles, properly insured, for use in City service. Mileage will be paid according to established rates.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.


SELECTION PROCESS 

Examination Weights:  Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Qualifying
          Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire and an interview. In the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire, candidates will be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background and personal qualifications and abilities. Emphasis will be placed on the following: Judgment and Decision Making, Supervision, Responsiveness and Follow-Up, Resolves Conflict, Written Communication, Leadership, Safety Focus including knowledge of: pertinent safety regulations and requirements related to work on a construction site, including the use and maintenance of equipment; work area traffic control standards, regulations, and procedures; and Job Knowledge including knowledge of: street service operations; the major components of a street cleaning and pothole repair program; plans, specifications, and grade sheets as it relates to street construction or maintenance projects; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

The qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score for each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications as described on the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the expert review panel. 

Passing Score for the Qualifying Test

The passing score for the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire will be determined by Personnel Department staff after it is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the qualifying test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire in order to be invited to the interview.

The qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire will be administered on-line. Candidates invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to complete the on-line qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire. Candidates that do not complete the on-line qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire as required will not be considered further in this examination. It is anticipated that the on-line qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire will be administered during the period of DECEMBER 10, 2018 and DECEMBER 17, 2018.

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Judgment and Decision Making, Supervision, Responsiveness and Follow-Up, Resolves Conflict, Leadership, Safety Focus including knowledge of: pertinent safety regulations and requirements related to work on a construction site, including the use and maintenance of equipment; work area traffic control standards, regulations, and procedures; and Job Knowledge including knowledge of: street service operations; the major components of a street cleaning and pothole repair program; plans, specifications, and grade sheets as it relates to street construction or maintenance projects; standard engineering specifications for roadwork set forth by Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction (SSPWC); the various types of road distresses; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Street Services Superintendent.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final score of 70% in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Candidates filing on a promotional basis will have seniority credits added to their weighted test score at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service.
7. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credit, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit as indicated above, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.

Notice:
If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefits coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 4158 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-19-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

