STREET SERVICES GENERAL SUPERINTENDENT

Class Code:   	4160
Open Date:  04-29-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$103,356 to $147,078 and $120,644 to $171,654

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Street Services General Superintendent directs or assists in directing the activities of various divisions within the Bureau of Street Services including Cleaning and Maintenance, Methods and Standards, Resurfacing and Reconstruction, or Special Projects Construction.

REQUIREMENTS

1.	Two years of full-time paid experience in a class at the level of Street Services Superintendent with the City of Los Angeles, supervising or managing street maintenance; street sweeping; resurfacing; or public works projects pertaining to street improvements, streetscapes or concrete infrastructure; or
2.	Five years of full-time paid experience supervising or managing street maintenance; street sweeping; resurfacing; or public works projects pertaining to street improvements, streetscapes, or concrete infrastructure. 

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application, all candidates must complete the Street Services General Superintendent Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Street Services General Superintendent Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions of the City Application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed.
2. Graduation from a recognized four-year college or university is desired. 
3. A Master's Degree in Public Administration, Public Policy, Urban Planning or Engineering is highly desired. 
4. Two years of full-time paid public works infrastructure management experience developing benchmark standards and performance metrics pertaining to street improvement, streetscapes, or concrete infrastructure is highly desirable. 
5. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from April 29, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Street Services General Superintendent may be evaluated based on the candidate's responses to the Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Street Services General Superintendent based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS


Examination Weights:     Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
                                          Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of experience and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's knowledge of: the methods, procedures, standards, materials, equipment and personnel necessary for organizing, planning, and administering a data-driven City-wide program of maintenance, construction, motor sweeping, and pavement preservation; safety principles, practices, and regulations, including CAL/OSHA rules and regulations; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO); fundamental principles and practices of supervision and management, including directing, assigning, motivating, training, disciplining, commending and evaluating subordinate personnel; and the ability to analyze performance costs and data; read construction/engineering plans and standard specifications to determine technical and budgetary requirements; identify and deploy technological innovations, including information technology, new materials, and new processes; develop, analyze, and evaluate detailed proposals for enhancing the delivery of street services; plan, schedule, implement, and optimize division work programs; deal tactfully and effectively with employees, City officials, Neighborhood Councils, private agencies, vendors, and the public; write memos, letters, justifications and narrative reports to report findings, explain information, and make recommendations; communicate orally in an effective and tactful manner with subordinate supervisors, subordinates, and the public on a one-to-one or group basis; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

As part of the evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will also consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of JULY 25, 2016 to AUGUST 5, 2016. 

Prior to the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material on a topic related to the duties and responsibilities of a Street Services General Superintendent. This essay material will not be scored separately, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their responses.  

Candidates must complete the advisory essay. Those who do not complete the advisory essay will not be invited to the interview and will be considered to have failed the entire examination. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the advisory essay, which will be held in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, JUNE 25, 2016, in Los Angeles.     


NOTES:

1. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period under provisions of Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Promotional candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those City classes, which provide qualifying experience for this position. A maximum of one point will be added to the score of the candidates.
7. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.  
8. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23 as applicable and within the required timeframe; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 4160. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04-29-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

