STREET SERVICES WORKER
Class Code:       4150
Open Date:  03-23-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$41,760 to $61,053; $44,411 to $64,915; $46,833 to $68,507

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions. 

DUTIES

A Street Services Worker rakes hot mix asphalt to grade with an asphalt lute behind a paving machine; may shovel or spread hot asphalt materials to meet grade of existing structures in preparation for breakdown and intermediate rolling operations; operates screed controls of asphalt paving machine or may be assigned to slurry crew; makes small asphalt repairs (SAR) to roadway; may maintain paperwork; assists equipment operator to hand load debris; cleans job-site; places warning devices for traffic control set-up and may be assigned to other duties related to various street repair operations.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Three months of full-time paid experience in raking, tamping, smoothing, or compacting bituminous (asphalt) mixtures.

PROCESS NOTES

1. The Bureau of Street Services and Harbor Department require a valid California driver's license. Some positions in other departments may also require a valid California driver's license. Candidates will not be eligible for an appointment to positions in the Bureau of Street Services and Harbor Department, or may not be eligible in other departments, if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
2. Most positions are in the Bureau of Street Services. The Bureau of Street Services and Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA) require possession of a valid Class B driver's license and a valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles, by the completion of the fourth month of probation. A Class B license and valid medical certificate may be required by other City departments prior to appointment. Candidates will be disqualified and not eligible for hire in the Bureau of Street Services and may not be eligible for appointment to positions in other departments if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). For positions requiring a valid Class B driver's license, candidates must submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1808.1.
3. Applicants using City of Los Angeles experience to qualify must submit a City of Los Angeles Verification of Work Experience (VWE) form. The VWE may be obtained on-line at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf. 
4. Applicants required to submit a VWE form may attach the completed form to their on-line application at the time of filing or will have seven (7) calendar days from the on-line submission date to e-mail a copy of their completed VWE form, including the required signatures, to per.appdocs@lacity.org. The subject line of your e-mail must include the exam title, your name and indicate it is a VWE. In the body of your e-mail, you must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number and contact phone number. Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.


NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL 5, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the performance test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from March 23, 2018 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:  Performance Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of a performance test. In the performance test, candidates may be required to demonstrate their knowledge of: safety devices and when to use them; safe lifting method when lifting materials and/or equipment; and the ability to: perform physically demanding labor; level, smooth, and featheredge asphalt material; determine irregularities in surfaces and grade; recognize and properly use tools; measure using measuring tape and measuring wheel to accurately determine sizes and distances; and estimate, through visual observation, the amount of tack coat required on a surface and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time and location of the performance test, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the performance test for this examination will begin during the period of JUNE 4, 2018 to JUNE 15, 2018. 

Candidates will have only one opportunity to take the performance test.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Based on the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% on the performance portion of this examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
7. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate filing on a promotional basis.
8. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.


Class Code 4150 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03-23-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to:  http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

