STRUCTURAL STEEL FABRICATOR

Class Code:       3793
Open Date:  12-23-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

 $95,191; $98,658; $99,848 (flat rated)

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Structural Steel Fabricator works from structural blueprints or sketches and does skilled work in the fabrication, repair, alteration, and assembly of structural steel members and shapes; and performs related work.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Four years of full-time paid experience in work involving all of the following areas: fabrication, welding, altering, and assembling structural steel members and shapes.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants lacking six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. In addition to the regular City application, applicants who wish to use their City of Los Angeles work experience to meet these requirements are required to submit a City of Los Angeles "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form, signed by their supervisor, verifying their experience in fabrication, welding, altering, and assembling structural steel members and shapes.  The VWE form should indicate the type of work performed and the amount of time spent performing such work.  The form may be downloaded at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf or may be obtained at the Personnel Department, Room 100, 700 E. Temple Street, Los Angeles, CA 90012.  Applicants may attach the completed (VWE) form to their on-line application at the time of filing or will have seven (7) calendar days from the on-line submission date to submit a copy of their completed VWE form to: Personnel Department, Room 100, 700 E. Temple Street, Los Angeles, CA 90012.  Applicants who fail to submit a copy of their VWE form within the time required will not be considered applicants in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
4. Because this class has been designated as Safety Sensitive in accordance with the City policy, a drug and alcohol screening test may be required for some positions prior to appointment.
5. A Structural Steel Welding Certificate issued by the Los Angeles City Department of Building and Safety is required prior to the completion of probation. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.



APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from December 23, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.
 
SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of a multiple-choice written test  in which candidates may be examined for knowledge of: structural steel fabricating machinery sufficient to cut and shape steel members; hand, power, and layout tools used in structural steel fabrication; various grades of structural bolts; standard rigging practices; welding symbols sufficient to prepare steel pieces for welding; Cal/OSHA rules and regulations sufficient to ensure compliance; basic arithmetic and shop math sufficient to determine angles, slopes, and related functions; the ability to properly use an oxyacetylene torch sufficient to cut, bend, and heat steel; straighten and repair damaged metal structures; set up and correctly adjust all types of welding equipment; determine the center of gravity of heavy objects of various shapes sufficient to lift, invert and move safely; read and interpret structural steel fabrication blueprints; read at a level sufficient to match delivery slips with delivered steel members; deal tactfully and effectively with co-workers, supervisors, and others; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half day session on SATURDAY, MARCH 4, 2017, in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 3793 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-23-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

