STRUCTURAL ENGINEERING ASSOCIATE

Class Code:       7957
Open Date:  06-16-17
 (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$66,231 to $94,252; $74,082 to $105,444; $82,496 to $117,345; and $89,637 to $127,555
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $78,905 to $98,031; $93,772 to $116,489; $101,685 to $126,365; and $109,327 to $135,824

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Structural Engineering Associate performs professional structural engineering work in the preparation or checking of designs, plans, specifications, estimates, and reports for a variety of structures; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. A Bachelor's or Master's degree in engineering from an accredited college or university, which includes at least 12 semester units or 18 quarter units of core courses in structural engineering; or
2. Certification as an Engineer-In-Training recognized by the State of California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists; or
3. Registration as a Professional Engineer with the State of California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application form, each applicant is required to complete the Structural Engineering Associate Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Structural Engineering Associate Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Question Section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. You may take the Structural Engineering Associate interview only once every 365 days from the date you were last added to the eligible list. If you have taken the Structural Engineering Associate interview in a campus environment with any City of Los Angeles department or LADWP, a special recruitment event, or during an open filing period in the Personnel Department within the last 12 months, you may not file for this examination at this time.
3. College seniors who are within six months of graduation from an accredited four-year college or university may apply.  However, you cannot be appointed until you have completed all your course work, including the 12 semester units or 18 quarter units described in Requirement No. 1. 
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
5. Applicants qualifying under Requirement #1 must provide the following information on their City application.  Applicants who fail to provide the information will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
a. List their school name and location, type of degree earned and major in the Education Section of the online application; and
b. Applicants that have completed core courses in structural engineering as stated in the Requirement, must list the course titles with the number of semester or quarter units, school attended and completion dates in the Supplemental Questions Section of the online application.
6. Applicants filing under Requirement No. 2 or No. 3 must list their Engineer-in-Training (EIT) certification number or Professional Engineer (PE) license number in the Supplemental Questions Section of the on-line application at the time of filing. Applicants who fail to provide their EIT certification number or PE License number will not be considered further in this examination.
7. Appointments will be made to temporary training positions in accordance with Civil Service Rule 5.30 of the Rules of the Board of Civil Service Commissioners, for a maximum duration of three years. In order to successfully complete the temporary training period, new appointees must obtain their Engineer-in-Training (EIT) Certificate within three years.  New appointees who do not successfully complete the temporary training period will be terminated from the class.
8. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. 
9. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires will only be accepted on-line at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations from 8:00 a.m. Tuesday, June 27, 2017 to 11:59 p.m., Thursday, June 29, 2017. Applications submitted before the start of the filing period will not be accepted. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires will only be accepted on-line on the following three days: From 8:00 a.m. Tuesday, June 27, 2017 to 11:59 p.m., Thursday, June 29, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from June 27, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Structural Engineering Associate may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Structural Engineering Associate based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 and qualifications review as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: 	Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of your professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's experience, training, education and personal qualifications as they have provided the background necessary to perform the duties of a Structural Engineering Associate, including the knowledge of: principles of structural engineering, including ultimate strength design; structural design practices,  analysis, and loading conditions on a variety of structures; soil engineering and analysis; materials testing procedures and properties of construction materials, including steel, steel connectors, concrete, wood, and masonry; pertinent laws, rules, codes, and standards pertaining to structural engineering, such as California Building Code and International Building Code; surveying techniques and procedures; methods and practices for preparing plans, specifications, and estimates; drafting and construction principles and practices; computer software, including structural design, structural analysis, and project scheduling software; project scheduling methods; contract documents; engineering economics, including labor and material estimates, budgeting, and fiscal analysis; and ability to: design and analyze structures, including determining shear, moments, forces, and stresses;  determine forces and stresses in statically determinate and statically indeterminate structures; design and analyze foundations, footings, piles, underground structures, structural steel members, and concrete and wood elements for structural engineering projects;  interpret construction plans and specifications; communicate effectively, both orally and in writing; deal tactfully and effectively with others; and other skills, knowledge and abilities.

As part of their evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. The Qualifications Questionnaire will not be separately scored but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate's qualifications. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the interview panel.

The Structural Engineering Associate and the Civil Engineering Associate interviews may contain common test questions and will be administered concurrently. 

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of AUGUST 21, 2017 TO SEPTEMBER 1, 2017.  

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
5. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7957. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .06-16-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

