


SUPPLY SERVICES PAYMENT CLERK

Class Code:       1214
Open Date:  03-10-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$50,654 to $72,098

NOTE:

The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
DUTIES

A Supply Services Payment Clerk performs difficult and responsible accounts payable work by reviewing and validating vendor invoices and other payment documentation, utilizing the City's procurement system; performs general accounting practices; prepares verbal and written communications; deals tactfully and effectively with vendors, supervisors and City employees; records maintenance activities; maintains various accounting reports and files; may act as a lead in the performance of such work; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. One year of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as an Accounting Clerk or in a class at that level performing accounts payable work including reviewing and validating invoices, and processing payments; or
2. Three years of full-time paid office clerical experience with two years of accounts payable work, reviewing and validating invoices, and processing payments. 

Successful completion of a college level course in bookkeeping or accounting from an accredited college or university may be substituted for six months of the required experience.
		
PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 using City of Los Angeles experience must have gained their qualifying experience in a class at the level of Accounting Clerk.
2. Applicants filing using City of Los Angeles experience in a City class other than Accounting Clerk must submit a "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form with the required signatures, verifying their experience performing accounts payable work, reviewing and validating invoices, and processing payments. Applicants may attach their completed VWE form to their online application at the time of filing, or will have seven (7) calendar days from the online submission date to email a copy of their completed VWE form to per.appdocs@lacity.org. The subject line of your email must include the exam title, your name and indicate it is a VWE. In the body of your email, you must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number and contact phone number. Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.  
3. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
4. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying coursework. 
5. Retail cashiering does not qualify as accounting experience. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs  for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2017.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from March 10, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of a multiple-choice written test in which candidates may be examined for knowledge of: basic accounts payable practices and the purpose for these practices; content of the most commonly used documents in accounts payable; general accounting methods, procedures, and practices; basic accounting terminology; standard office practices including filing, indexing, and cross-referencing methods sufficient to provide an audit trail of transactions; automated accounts payable systems (Supply Management System and Financial Management System); and ability to evaluate and verify payment documents for accuracy; effectively prioritize a heavy workload;  make arithmetical computations with accuracy; apply rules governing the expenditure of funds; operate personal computers (PCs) and peripherals; communicate effectively and deal tactfully with vendors, supervisors, and other City employees; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, MAY 13, 2017, in Los Angeles.

NOTES:	
	
1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1214 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03-10-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


