SUPPLY SERVICES MANAGER

Class Code:       1865
Open Date:  09-28-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$102,353 to $149,667 and $123,066 to $179,943
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $128,077 to $159,105; $148,644 to $184,662; and $182,867 to $227,195.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Supply Services Manager plans, organizes and directs the work of either a centralized City commodity store, or purchasing or materials management activities in a City department; may plan, organize and direct the City's centralized purchasing, materials management, and related distribution activities; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Procurement Supervisor, Senior Utility Buyer, or Stores Supervisor; or
2. Three years of full time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Principal Storekeeper.

A valid certification as one of the following may be substituted for one year of the required experience:
a. Certified Professional in Supply Management (CPSM) issued by the Institute for Supply Management; or
b. Certified Purchasing Manager (CPM) issued by the Institute for Supply Management; or
c. Certified Professional Contracts Manager (CPCM) issued by the National Contracts Management Association; or
d. Certified Public Procurement Officer (CPPO) issued by the Universal Public Procurement Certification Council; or
e. Certified Professional Public Buyer (CPPB) issued by the Universal Public Procurement Certification Council

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Applicants wishing to substitute a valid certification for one year of the required experience must submit a copy of their certificate at the time of filing. The copy of the certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. 
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Professional certification as a CPSM, CPM, CPCM, CPPO, or CPPB is desired, but not required.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2018.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
										     Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: judgment and decision making, credibility, oral communication, leadership, industry knowledge and job knowledge, including knowledge of: the laws, rules, procedures and practices related to procurement, warehousing, inventory control and materials distribution including pertinent provisions of the Commercial Code, City Charter and Los Angeles Administrative Code; commodity marketplace in order to source vendors, supplies and services by utilizing manual and automated processes such as the City's Business Assistance Virtual Network (BAVN) and the Enterprise Resource Planning System (eRSP); computer applications related to purchasing and material management activities; data analysis methods sufficient to research supply services trends and understand industry changes in order to provide the lowest ultimate cost to internal customers; the City's contractual procedures and adherence to contract terms and conditions as well as vendor compliance related to purchasing activities; the effective warehousing and inventory management safety principles and practices as required by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA); and City personnel rules, policies and procedures relating to supply chain management; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Supply Services Manager.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of NOVEMBER 26, 2018 to DECEMBER 7, 2018.

Prior to the interview, applicants will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Supply Services Manager. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. Please note that applicants must complete the advisory essay and meet minimum qualifications as stated on this bulletin in order to be considered further in the examination process.

The advisory essay will be administered on-line. Applicants invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps needed to complete the on-line advisory essay. Applicants will be required to complete the on-line advisory essay between FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2018 and SATURDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2018. Additional instructions will be sent via e-mail. Applicants who fail to complete the advisory essay as instructed may be disqualified.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. Candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of continuous service in those classes that provide qualifying experience for this position. A maximum of one point will be added to the score of those candidates.
6. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
9. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period under the provisions of Charter Section 1011.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1865 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09-28-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

