TAX COMPLIANCE OFFICER
Class Code:       1179
Open Date:  11-18-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$55,874 to $81,703; $63,329 to $92,602; and $74,437 to $108,847

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. The salary range covers multiple pay grades within the class. 
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Tax Compliance Officer analyzes, interprets and enforces various tax, permit and fee liabilities, including the City business, parking and transient occupancy taxes and City permit ordinances through independent field and office investigations; may supervise other Tax Compliance Officers and clerical staff by directing and coordinating the activities of a field enforcement or office enforcement section; and may assist at a public counter or the call center providing technical assistance to customers via telephone, on-line and in-person.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS 

1. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Tax Compliance Aide with the City of Los Angeles; or
2. A Bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited four-year college or university with a degree in business administration,     economics, accounting, finance, or public administration.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
3. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. 
4. Upon appointment, a Tax Compliance Officer may be required to furnish his or her own automobile, properly insured for use in City service. Mileage will be paid according to established rates. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2016.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from November 18, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written Test  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of a multiple-choice written test. In the multiple-choice written test, the following competencies may be evaluated: Reading Comprehension, Mathematics, Judgment and Decision Making, Learning Ability, Attention to Detail, Interpersonal Skills, Customer Service and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of bookkeeping terminology, such as assets, liabilities, stockholders, revenues and expenses; factors necessary to read street maps and computer programs including Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, and Quickbooks and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Tax Compliance Officer. 

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the administration of the written test will begin on SATURDAY, JANUARY 21, 2017.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by the Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list. However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service in those classes which provide qualifying experience for this class, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates. 
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protest as provided in 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
          
Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.


          
THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN 
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 1179 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-18-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

