TAX AUDITOR
Class Code:       1514
Open Date: 06-22-18
 (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY 

$59,361 to $86,819 and $69,927 to $102,249

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower salary range positions.

DUTIES

A Tax Auditor conducts or reviews field or office audits of accounting and related records of persons, businesses, and organizations to determine the accuracy of self-assessed tax payments to the City of Los Angeles; and performs internal audits of operations related to business tax and permit enforcement, audit, and administration.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1.  Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a degree in Accounting; or
2.  Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university and satisfactory completion of at least 24 semester or 32 quarter units in the following courses: Principles of Accounting I and II; Intermediate Accounting I and II; Cost Accounting; Auditing and two of any of the following courses: Governmental Accounting I and II, Tax Accounting, upper-level Information Technology, or Managerial Accounting.

PROCESS NOTES

1. College seniors who are within six months of graduation from and accredited college or university may apply. However, you cannot be appointed until you have completed all your course work. Successful candidates will be notified of degree verification procedures. 
2. Applicants filing under Requirement No. 1 must list the following information in the Education section of their online application: School name and location, type of degree earned and major. Applicants who fail to provide the information on their application will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
3. After being appointed to this position, Tax Auditors are expected to successfully complete an approximate seven-week class conducted by the City of Los Angeles, Office of Finance. 
4. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
5. For those filing under Requirement No. 2, a copy of a school transcript (annotated with accounting courses, credit earned, and grade received) may be attached to the application at the time of filing.
6. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. 
7. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JULY 5, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received.  Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight: Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
			        Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Reading Comprehension, Judgment and Decision Making, Attention to Detail, Fact Finding, Customer Service, Oral Communication, Written Communication, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: the elements of business operation as it relates to both large and small businesses, such as the type of industry and how revenue is generated; common business terminology as it relates to audits, such as sole proprietorships and partnerships; source documents, such as the general ledger and income statements; secondary, non-standard sources of information pertinent to an audit, such as bank statements and rental agreements; General Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and General Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS); basic accounting terminology; the differences between cash and accrual accounting basis; accounting calculations used to convert fiscal year to calendar year and from cash to accrual basis; basic arithmetic; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Tax Auditor.

Prior to the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Tax Auditor. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. The advisory essay will be administered online. Candidates invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to complete the online advisory essay, and will be required to do so by the date provided in the instructions sent to them via email. Candidates who fail to complete the online advisory essay may be disqualified. It is anticipated that the online advisory essay will be administered JULY 16, 2018 to JULY 23, 2018.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of AUGUST 27, 2018 to SEPTEMBER 7, 2018. 

NOTES:
	
1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. Employees of this class are required to perform field audits that necessitate travel to various locations within Los Angeles. Tax Auditors must provide their own efficient vehicle for the performance of these duties.  Employees who personally drive their own vehicle or alternate drivers of vehicles used in performance of these duties must possess a valid California driver's license prior to appointment, and the vehicle used must be properly insured for use in City service upon appointment.  Mileage will be paid according to established policies.  A Tax Auditor may also be required to travel to and work at locations outside of Los Angeles and/or outside of the State.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5.   A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required timeframe; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  

Class Code 1514. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .06-22-18


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to:  http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

