TIRE REPAIRER
												          Class Code:      3727
												           Open Date: 09-15-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$50,279 to $60,823; $54,580 to $66,001
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $54,538 to $67,755; and $79,719 (flat-rated).

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Tire Repairer inspects and determines whether transportation and construction equipment tires should continue in service, be repaired, discarded or returned to the manufacturer; services, removes and installs tires and tubes; balances and inspects wheels; performs skilled work in the sectional repair of tires or recapping of tires, and repair of tubes; and responds to emergency road service requests and other tire related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Completion of a recognized apprenticeship as a tire repairer; or
2. Three years of full-time paid experience in sectional tire repair, recapping, tire and wheel inspection, or maintenance on a variety of tires and wheels including heavy duty truck or earth moving equipment.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above experience under Requirement #2 may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 must submit a copy of their apprenticeship certificate. Applicants must attach a copy of the Apprenticeship Certificate to the online application at the time of filing. The certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted the certificate. Applicants who fail to submit the Apprentice Certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 using City of Los Angeles experience must submit a "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form. Applicants required to submit a VWE form may attach the completed form to their online application at the time of filing, or will have seven (7) calendar days from the online submission date to email a copy of their completed VWE form, including the required signatures, to per.appdoc@lacity.org. The subject line of your email must include the exam title, your name and indicate it is a VWE. In the body of your email, you must also include your first and last name, last four digits of your Social Security Number and contact phone number. Applicants who fail to submit their signed VWE form within the time required will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed. The VWE form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf. 
4. Sectional tire repair experience is especially desired.
5. Some positions may require a valid California Class C driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violations (such as DUI). 
6. Some positions may require a California Class B driver's license and valid medical certificate prior to completion of probation. Candidates must submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1808.1. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure they have time to resolve any technical issues they may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by SEPTEMEBER 28, 2017.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the examination in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from September 15, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

     Examination Weight:  Technical Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of a demonstration of job knowledge and an evaluation of general qualifications by technical interview. Candidates may be examined for knowledge of: types of tires used on a wide range of vehicles; defects in tires; inflation pressures for different types of tube and tubeless tires; load ranges in relation to tire carrying capacity; defects in tubes; various tire, tube, wheel sizes, and interchangeability options; types of wheels used on vehicles including factors such as load capacities and appropriate road and/or working conditions for each; defects in wheels; wheel assembly and mounting; Federal, State, Local laws, and Department of Transportation compliance pertaining to tires and wheel assemblies; chemical and heat vulcanization process; materials used in tire repair; methods of tire repair; capacities of different types of jacks and jack stands; safety principles and regulations; when punctures acquired in the field can and cannot be repaired; modern tire pressure monitoring systems; and the abilities to use various repair tools and equipment; wheel balance; read sufficient to read such material as work orders, delivery invoices, or notes about repairs; write to complete work orders and making inventory lists; communicate orally to discuss jobs and explain work procedures; observe defects in tires; use a street map to drive to an unfamiliar location; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities. 


Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the Demonstration of Job Knowledge and Evaluation of General Qualifications by Technical Interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that examinations will begin during the period of NOVEMEBER 27, 2017 through DECEMEBER 8, 2017.


NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates. 
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. Based on City policy, before being hired in this position you may be required to undergo drug and alcohol mandatory testing prior to and during employment in this class.
7. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
8. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22, 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.
	
THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 3727. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . 09-15-17


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 




Class Code 3727. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . 09-15-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

