TRAFFIC OFFICER
Class Code:       3214
Open Date:  04-01-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$45,017 to $48,838; $44,808 to $63,767; and $47,272 to $67,275 
 
Appointments from the eligible list are made at the lowest pay grade. Part-time appointments from the eligible list are hired at an hourly rate ($17.35).

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Initial appointments are anticipated to be made on a part-time basis.

DUTIES

A Traffic Officer patrols an assigned area on foot, bicycle, or in a vehicle to enforce motor vehicle parking regulations; issues warnings or citations for illegal parking by entering information into a hand-held computer; impounds vehicles; and directs vehicular and pedestrian traffic at a specific intersection or other specified location.

Traffic Officers at the highest pay grade will be expected to direct vehicular and pedestrian traffic on a daily basis at various assigned locations. They may provide the initial field training to new Traffic Officers on a temporary short-term basis, and may serve as acting, on-site supervisors on a temporary short-term basis.

Traffic Officers may be assigned to work any work shift, including weekends and holidays, and may be assigned to work in any geographic location in the City of Los Angeles. Work must be performed outdoors in all weather conditions. Work shifts may also be extended in emergency situations.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Graduation from high school or G.E.D. equivalent; and
2. One year of full-time paid experience administering and explaining rules, regulations, or ordinances to the public; or 
3. Successful completion of 60 semester or 90 quarter units from an accredited college or university.

NOTES:

1. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).	
2. In order to help you determine whether your background is suitable for the position of Traffic Officer, you MUST complete an online Preliminary Background Application (PBA) to help you identify any potential background issues which may affect your candidacy. You MUST also review and complete an online Job Preview Questionnaire (JPQ), which will provide you with a realistic understanding of the job of Traffic Officer. The PBA and JPQ are part of the City job application.  
3. In addition to the regular City application supplemental questions, you MUST complete the Traffic Officer Qualifications Questionnaire (QQ) at the time of filing. The Traffic Officer Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the job application, PBA, JPQ, and QQ within the time required will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed. 
4. Prior to appointment, a Background Investigation will be conducted. The information provided in your PBA will be used during this investigation to determine eligibility.  Applicants may be disqualified for criminal history or other behavior as indicated in the following statements: You must not have a history of criminal or improper conduct including any felony convictions.  You must not have poor employment, military, or driving records, which would affect your suitability for Traffic Officer work. You must have a responsible financial history. You must have displayed a pattern of respect and honesty in your dealings with individuals and organizations. You must be fingerprinted and have no disqualifying record of law violations or other improper conduct.  
5. Two and four-year college degrees are desired but not required. Prior military service in the United States Armed Forces or experience in a paramilitary organization, such as Los Angeles Police Cadets or security services, is desired but not required.
6. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
7. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying coursework.



WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications will be accepted on-line only STARTING AT 8:00 A.M. on TUESDAY, APRIL 12, 2016, UNTIL THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016, AT 11:59 P.M.  

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received.  Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from April 1, 2016, in the event additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Traffic Officer may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Traffic Officer, based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review, will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying (Pass/Fail) 
                                       Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying written test and a training and experience questionnaire.  In the qualifying written test, which will consist of multiple choice questions, candidates may be examined for the ability to: write clearly and legibly; comprehend text; interact tactfully and effectively with others; make sound decisions; perform work requiring close attention to detail; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

The qualifying Written Test and the Training and Experience Questionnaire will consist of a half-day session, expected to take place on SATURDAY, JUNE 4, 2016, in Los Angeles. Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the test. Future dates will be scheduled as needed.

Candidates must pass the qualifying written test to have their Traffic Officer Training and Experience Questionnaire evaluated. The Traffic Officer Training and Experience Questionnaires and City job applications of these candidates will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's overall qualifications, as described on the candidate's job application and Traffic Officer Training and Experience Questionnaire.

Passing Score for Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written test may be set either above or below 70%.

The examination score will be based entirely of an evaluation of training and experience wherein candidates may be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, and professional background as they have provided the skills, knowledge, and abilities necessary to perform the duties of a Traffic Officer. Candidates may be examined for the ability to: communicate orally; interact tactfully and effectively with others; remain alert and focused in stressful environments; work independently with minimal supervision; make sound decisions with no or minimal supervision in emergency situations; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

If you receive and accept a conditional job offer, appointment is subject to completing a MEDICAL EXAMINATION and PSYCHOLOGICAL EVALUATION. Candidates must be determined to be medically and psychologically qualified to perform the essential duties of a Traffic Officer. Candidates must undergo a medical examination given by a City Physician, and a psychological evaluation conducted by a City psychologist that consists of a written test and interview that focus on factors related to successful performance in the job of Traffic Officer.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application online. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at: http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at anytime it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. Candidates will be required to undergo a DRUG and ALCOHOL screening test based on City policy.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ON
AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3214. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .04-01-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


