TRANSPORTATION PLANNING ASSOCIATE


Class Code:       2480
Open Date:  07-20-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$63,078 to $ 92,206 and $86,923 to $110,998 

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Transportation Planning Associate does professional work in administering transit operations and contracts, approving transportation demand management plans, analyzing and recommending transportation system or airport facility improvements, and coordinating transportation planning efforts with Federal, State and local agencies.
  
REQUIREMENTS/ MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a degree in Transportation Planning or Transportation Engineering; or 
2. Graduation from  an accredited four-year college or university and completion of at least 12 semester or 18 quarter units in Transportation Policy or Transportation Planning related courses such as Urban Planning, Urban Design, Urban Transportation Issues, Public Policy, Transit, Travel Demand Forecasting, Statistics, Quantities Methods, Public Finance, Urban Economics, Airport Planning, Aviation Management; or 
3. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university and one year of full-time paid professional experience in transportation planning.

PROCESS NOTES

1. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position.  Therefore, to be considered "professional", non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree.
2. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%08-21-08.pdf. Applicants who wish to expedite this process may attach a copy of their transcripts (annotated with transportation related courses, credit earned, and grade received) or qualifying degree to their on-line application at the time of filing in the Attachments section
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. In most positions, Transportation Planning Associates are required to provide information to the public, various governmental agencies and Department management and personnel; therefore, the candidate must be able to communicate clearly and understandably to the public.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.   
NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 2018.



In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates.  Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Essay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory		                                Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Analytical Ability, Attention to detail, Conscientiousness, Responsiveness and Follow-up, Interpersonal Skills, Written Communication, and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: steps of the typical transportation planning process; concepts, principles, and trends in transportation planning, such as travel demand management and travel supply management; transportation data sources such as origin and destination studies, and ridership data; general concepts of transit systems operations, including headways, route and schedule planning, and the implementation of transit services; statistical concepts; evaluation techniques, such as capacity analysis and travel demand forecasting; environmental review process related to the National Environmental Protection Act (NEPA) and California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA); and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Transportation Planning Associate.  

Prior to the interview, candidates will be required to prepare some written material related to the duties and responsibilities of a Transportation Planning Associate. This essay material will not be separately scored, but will be presented to the interview board for discussion with the candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of the candidate. The advisory essay will be administered online. Candidates invited to participate in the examination will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to complete the online advisory essay, and will be required to do so by the date provided in the instructions sent to them via email. Candidates who fail to complete the online advisory essay may be disqualified. It is anticipated that the online advisory essay will be administered AUGUST 13, 2018 to AUGUST 20, 2018.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of SEPTEMBER 24 2018 TO OCTOBER 5, 2018.  

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. In conjunction with Civil Service rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
7. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 2480. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07-20-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to:  http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess


