TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERING ASSOCIATE             
Class Code:       7280
Open Date:  07-24-15
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY  

$68,549 to $85,149; $76,629 to $95,212; $85,357 to $106,049; and $92,769 to $115,216

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Transportation Engineering Associate performs professional engineering work in investigating and analyzing street traffic conditions to determine the need for traffic control measures; reviews street improvement plans to determine the need for traffic control devices; prepares plans, specifications and estimates for installation of traffic signal systems and channelization; prepares planning and research studies to look at existing and proposed traffic control measures and methodologies with the assistance of Computer-Aided Design (CAD), Geographic Information Systems, modeling software and project management programs; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a degree in engineering, which includes at least 9 semester units or 12 quarter units of transportation engineering, civil engineering and/or computer science courses; or
2. Possession of a valid Engineer-In-Training Certificate recognized by the State of California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application all candidates must complete the Transportation Engineering Associate Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Transportation Engineering Associate Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions of the City Application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination and their application will not be processed.
2. College seniors who are within six months of graduation from an accredited four-year college or university may apply.  However, you cannot be appointed until you have completed all your course work, including the 9 semester units or 12 quarter units described in Requirement No. 1. 
3. You may take the Transportation Engineering Associate interview only once every 365 days. If you have taken the Transportation Engineering Associate interview in a campus environment, a special recruitment event, or during an open filing period in the Personnel Department within the last 12 months, you may not file for this examination at this time.
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
5. Applicants filing under Requirement No. 1 must indicate the engineering core courses completed and include the name of the school, course credit earned, and grade received in the Supplemental Questions Section of the on-line application. Candidates who fail to do so will not be considered further in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
6. Applicants filing under Requirement No. 2 must list their Engineer-In-Training (EIT) Certificate number in the Supplemental Questions section of the on-line application. At the time of appointment, candidates must submit to the department which appoints them, verification of their EIT certification.
7. Appointments will be made to temporary training positions in accordance with Section 5.30 of the Rules of the Board of Civil Service Commissioners for a maximum duration of three years. In order to successfully complete the temporary training period, new appointees must obtain their Engineer-In-Training (EIT) Certificate within three years. New appointees who do not successfully complete the temporary training period will be terminated from the class.
8. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%08-21-08.pdf.
9. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications WILL ONLY BE ACCEPTED ON-LINE from 8:00 a.m. Tuesday, AUGUST 4, 2015 to Midnight, Thursday, AUGUST 6, 2015. Applications submitted before the start of the filing period will not be accepted. For administrative purposes, filing may close and reopen periodically throughout the filing period. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the following three days: from 8:00 A.M, TUESDAY, AUGUST 4, 2015; WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 5, 2015; TO MIDNIGHT, THURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015.

NOTE:
Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from July 24, 2015 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Transportation Engineering Associate may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Transportation Engineering Associate based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

Your examination score will be based entirely on an evaluation of your professional and personal qualifications.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's experience, training, education, and personal qualifications as they provide the background necessary to perform the duties of a Transportation Engineering Associate, including the knowledge of: transportation engineering principles and practices as applied to traffic operations and transportation planning functions; traffic control devices sufficient to recommend, design, or modify such devices; project scheduling techniques sufficient to complete transportation engineering projects; mathematics and statistical concepts sufficient to evaluate formulas and analyze transportation data; computer software and programs sufficient to draw engineering designs, and run and analyze data; and the ability  to read, interpret, and analyze transportation technical reports and data, including volume counts, accident histories, and speed studies; take accurate and impartial notes to document physical conditions, meetings, and phone conversations; communicate, both orally and in writing, in a clear, concise, and effective manner; exercise good judgment using transportation principles, Department policies, and impartial analysis of the facts; deal tactfully and effectively with others; other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

The Qualifications Questionnaire will not be separately scored, but will be considered by the interview board in evaluating each candidate's qualifications. Candidates may expect the interview panel members to discuss this information during the interview. Qualifications Questionnaires submitted by candidates on the day of the interview will not be accepted for presentation to the interview board.

The Transportation Engineering Associate and the Transportation Planning Associate interviews may contain common test questions and will be administered concurrently. 

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of SEPTEMBER 28, 2015 TO OCTOBER 9, 2015.  

NOTES:

1. You may take the Transportation Engineering Associate interview only once every 365 days.  If you have taken the Transportation Engineering Associate interview in a campus environment or a special recruitment event within the last 12 months, you may not file for this examination at this time.
2. This examination is based on a validation study.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
6. Your rank on the employment list may change as the scores of the candidates from other administrations of these examinations are merged onto one list.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code: 7280 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07-24-15


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

