TRUCK AND EQUIPMENT DISPATCHER

Class Code:       3586
Open Date:  05-26-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$72,036 to $89,470; $74,896 to $93,041; $78,049 to $96,945; $82,956 to $103,084; and $88,197 to $109,599

NOTES:

1. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
3. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Truck and Equipment Dispatcher assigns, reviews, and evaluates the work of employees engaged in the operation of heavy duty trucks and construction equipment; dispatches heavy duty transportation and construction equipment; establishes schedules and routes for such equipment; arranges for inspection of equipment to determine necessity for repairs; recommends and arranges rental of transportation or construction equipment and contracts; coordinates the assignment and placement of such equipment; obtains necessary transportation permits; uses automated technology and information systems to record, monitor, analyze, and act upon fleet related data; evaluates and recommends equipment rate adjustment; may act as Lead Dispatcher, and evaluates the need for and provides training to staff as necessary; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Three years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Heavy Duty Truck Operator, Equipment Operator, or Power Shovel Operator; and
2. A valid California Class A driver's license with TX endorsements and a valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles are required at the time of filing.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. For positions requiring a valid Class A driver's license, candidates will be asked to submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVS Section 1808.1 prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).  
3. A Passenger Transport Vehicles (P) endorsement on the candidate's California Class A driver's license will be required prior to completing probation. 
4. Some positions will require candidates to possess and maintain a valid California Commercial Class A Driver's License (CDL) prior to appointment. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

  

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:  Written . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying
								       Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  100%
  
The examination will consist of a qualifying multiple-choice written test and interview. The qualifying written test will consist of multiple-choice questions. In the multiple-choice written test, the following competencies may be evaluated: Mathematics, Supervision, Interpersonal Skills, Safety Focus including knowledge of: pertinent safety regulations and requirements related to the use and maintenance of equipment such as fall protection and the use of personal protective equipment (PPE) sufficient to ensure compliance with California Occupational Safety and Health Administration (Cal/OSHA); local, state, and Federal transportation regulations such as legal load limits related to the height and weight of trucks on highways and the transportation of hazardous materials including oxygen and flammable gas sufficient to ensure compliance with the Department of Transportation (DOT), Caltrans, or other corresponding entity with jurisdiction; the procedures for obtaining transportation permits including what government agencies to contact and the required information to submit such as the dimensions of equipment; and Job Knowledge including knowledge of: the different types of operator licenses and certificates such as the National Commission for the Certification of Crane Operators Certificate sufficient to know which licenses are required when operating equipment; the characteristics and capabilities of equipment such as forklifts, cranes, rollers, graders, gradalls, trucks, and bulldozers including their lifting, digging, and hauling capabilities; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses  and clicking on Competencies under Truck and Equipment Dispatcher.

Passing Score for Qualifying Written Test

The passing score for the qualifying written test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying written test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying multiple-choice written may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying multiple-choice test in order to be scheduled for the interview. The examination score will be based entirely on the interview.

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, the following competencies may be evaluated: Judgment and Decision Making, Supervision, Interpersonal Skills, Oral Communication, Customer Service, Safety Focus including knowledge of: pertinent safety regulations and requirements related to the use and maintenance of equipment such as fall protection and the use of personal protective equipment (PPE) sufficient to ensure compliance with California Occupational Safety and Health Administration (Cal/OSHA); local, state, and Federal transportation regulations such as legal load limits related to the height and weight of trucks on highways and the transportation of hazardous materials including oxygen and flammable gas sufficient to ensure compliance with the Department of Transportation (DOT), Caltrans, or other corresponding entity with jurisdiction; the procedures for obtaining transportation permits including what government agencies to contact and the required information to submit such as the dimensions of equipment; and Job Knowledge, including knowledge of: the characteristics and capabilities of equipment such as forklifts, cranes, rollers, graders, gradalls, trucks, and bulldozers including their lifting, digging, and hauling capabilities; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single, half-day session on SATURDAY, JULY 29, 2017 in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.
3. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
4. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
5. Applications are subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous City service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.

Class Code 3586. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05-26-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

