UTILITY SERVICES MANAGER
Class Code:       9106
Open Date:  11-04-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$99,305 to $123,379; $118,869 to $147,684; $135,720 to $168,606; $145,742 to 181,071; $153,927 to 191,239; $200,176 to 248,701

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
                             
DUTIES  

A Utility Services Manager manages Department of Water and Power Divisions or organizational entities engaged in industry specific functions such as customer service activities including continuous operation contact center operations, customer relations, field service and collection, revenue protection and management, billing services; environmental programs; debt recovery programs; as well as marketing and strategic planning and research, account management; support and promotional activities; business planning; customer technology and data analytics management; addressing quality issues related to the Department and customer and public interaction and/or notifications on water quality regulations, issues and solutions; bulk power sales, and the efficient usage of energy and water; may also serve as an assistant head of a business organization; applies sound management and supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; interacts with regulatory agencies on matters such as planning, permitting, and promulgation of existing and new regulations affecting customers and internal operations and policy; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Commercial Service Supervisor or Commercial Field Supervisor or in a class at least at that level supervising staff performing work in customer interaction to assess customer need and preferences, resolving customer disputes and billing inquiries, high bill resolutions, electric meter installations, and other activities relating to the furnishing of electrical and water services; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Senior Utility Services Specialist or in a class at least at that level supervising professional staff engaged in the promotion and development of customer programs related to the efficient use of electrical energy and water; conservation; account management; marketing support; retail marketing; analyzing options for optimizing facility energy use and equipment; collecting and analyzing market data and customer information; managing consumer issues related to water quality and safety; handling customer communications; or
3. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Utility Administrator with the City of Los Angeles performing professional administrative, research, or personnel functions; or
4. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Principal Public Relations Representative with the City of Los Angeles supervising professional staff engaged in customer market research, public relations, and media relation functions; or
5. Three years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as an Operations and Statistical Research Analyst.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for the examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. A bachelor's degree from an accredited four year college or university is desired but not required.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2016. 

SELECTION PROCESS  

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:   Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying 
		       Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire and an interview. In the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire, candidates will be evaluated on their knowledge, experience, professional background, personal qualifications and abilities, including knowledge of: Department of Water and Power policies, rules, and procedures relating to customer service, including rates, billing, credit and collection, account management, and marketing; environmental compliance programs; energy and water efficiency, conservation, and safe usage; governmental regulatory and legislative issues; management principles, practices and techniques sufficient to direct the activities of a major section of the Department of Water and Power; organizational development skills sufficient to form a project management team and implement a major project; and the ability to analyze complex concepts and issues related to the utility industry; communicate effectively in writing; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

The qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaires will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation. The expert review panel will assign a numeric score to each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications as described on the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire. Unsolicited supplement information will not be submitted to the expert review panel. 

The qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, JANUARY 21, 2017 in Los Angeles. Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the time and location of the written test. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their responses to the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire. 

Passing Score for Qualifying Test

The passing score for the qualifying test will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying test is administered. Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years. Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire in order to be invited to the interview.

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the nature and adequacy of the candidate's experience, training, and personal qualifications required to manage a division or organizational entity through subordinate supervisors, including the knowledge of: the Department of Water and Power functions, policies, rules, procedures, principles and practices, techniques, and skills applicable to the management of customer service, marketing, conservation, account management, environmental compliance programs and related activities to promote and develop the efficient and/or safe usage of energy and water; principles, techniques, and methods suitable for the dissemination of information concerning a municipal agency;  organization of the Department of Water and Power and the functions and interrelationships of its divisions and channels of communication within the Department; relevant sections of the Policy, Personnel, Finance, Accounting, and other Administrative Manuals in the Department of Water and Power; safety concerns and methods of analysis sufficient to make recommendations for changes in procedures to reduce accidents and/or injuries; organizational development and management principles, practices and techniques sufficient to direct the activities of a major section of the Department of Water and Power; principles, practices and methods of public administration such as management by objective, management theories, organizational structure, and organizational development; and the ability to analyze complex concepts and issues related to the utility industry; anticipate likely reactions to proposals, presentations and suggestions; clearly visualize and implement a project, plan, or proposal's full scope; implement equal employment opportunity responsibilities; plan, assign, direct, and review the work of a group of employees engaged in various industry-specific functions; analyze complex concepts and issues related to the utility industry; communicate effectively orally and in writing; deal tactfully and effectively with local, state, and federal officials, representatives of other jurisdictions, management, employees, and the public involving highly sensitive customer service issues; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that the interviews will begin during the period of MARCH 6, 2017 TO MARCH 17, 2017.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% on the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.	
4. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Promotional candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those City classes which provide qualifying experience for this position. A maximum of one point will be added to the score of those candidates.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
 ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. 
Class Code 9106. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-04-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

