UTILITY ACCOUNTANT

Class Code:       1511
Open Date:  09-28-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$71,868 to $89,303, $ 73,539 to $ 91,350, $75,439 to $93,730, $78,801 to $97,906, and $85,044 to $105,652

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Utility Accountant performs professional accounting, finance, and/or audit-related work. The scope of such work includes the analysis, preparation and maintenance of financial records and reports; treasury and financial activities; and internal audit reviews at the Department of Water and Power.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university and at least 24 semester or 36 quarter units in accounting.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Utility Accountant Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Utility Accountant Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. College seniors within 6 months of graduation from an accredited four-year college or university may also file for this examination. However, they must meet the full requirement before being appointed.
3. Applicants must list the school name, location, course title with number of semester or quarter units, completion dates, and anticipated graduation date in the Supplemental Question Section of the on-line application.
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as a DUI).
5. Candidates completing the exam process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree and/or coursework. Applicants who wish to expedite this process may attach a copy of their transcripts (annotated with accounting courses, credit earned, and grade received) or qualifying degree to their on-line application at the time of filing in the Attachments section.
6. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
7. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree and/or coursework.
8. You may take the Utility Accountant interview only once every 12 months from the date you were last added to the eligible list. If you have taken the Utility Accountant interview in a campus environment with the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power within the last 12 months, you may not file for this examination at this time. 


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2018.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of those qualified candidates. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position of Utility Accountant may be evaluated based on the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Those candidates considered possessing the greatest likelihood of successfully performing the duties of a Utility Accountant based solely on the information submitted for qualifications review will continue in the selection process.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weights:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the candidate's background and experience as they have provided the knowledge of: basic accounting terminology; principles of cost accounting; generally accepted accounting principles; internal and external audit principles and procedures; types and methods of establishing depreciation schedules; procedures for writing off accounts receivable; inventory valuation methods; research and resource materials such as AICPA opinions; double entry bookkeeping procedures, including debits, credits and accrual bases; statistical sampling techniques; procedures for classifying, recording, summarizing and reconciling transactions and events in an accounting cycle; various kinds of financial statements; accounting ratios; terminology, procedures and programs used when preparing accounting material for data processing and data processing systems; effective methods for overseeing, initiating, and organizing paperwork; and the ability to: read, interpret, and analyze complex written material; post and record financial transactions; compile revenue and cost data; evaluate accounting and administrative controls; work under pressure of time, conflicting demands and unexpected difficulties; work neatly, accurately, and independently when performing and completing assignments; learn new or different work methods; take initiative; orally communicate effectively one-on-one or in a group setting; work effectively with co-workers, supervisors, and other department personnel; communicate in writing, clearly, concisely, logically, and accurately using proper grammar and syntax; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of DECEMBER 3, 2018 to DECEMBER 14, 2018.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required in the interview to be placed on the eligible list.
4. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1511 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .09-28-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

