VIDEO PRODUCTION COORDINATOR

Class Code:       1802
Open Date:  01-27-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$52,951 to $77,402

NOTE:

Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Video Production Coordinator performs a combination of production and administrative tasks related to planning, organizing, and coordinating municipal productions and operations; coordinates the development of video productions for use in public presentations, community meetings, theaters, live events, public exhibits, school programming, on the web and in social media; schedules and coordinates requests for production, editing, translation and closed captioning; serves as producer, associate producer, director, post production supervisor, and scriptwriter for municipal projects; assists in the recruitment, evaluation, and selection of contractors; develops the plan, schedule, and budget for a wide range of video productions; may also shoot, edit, and produce videos, and tailor video content for social media; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

Three years of full-time paid experience in video production coordination, including shooting, editing, and producing video, and performing general administrative work.

Completion of 60 semester or 90 quarter units from an accredited college or university with successful completion of at least 12 semester or 18 quarter units in Communications or a closely related field may substitute for one year of the required experience.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, each applicant is required to submit a Video Production Coordinator Training and Experience Questionnaire at the time of filing.  Applicants who fail to submit the Training and Experience Questionnaire will not be considered candidates in this examination and their applications will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. College course work with an emphasis in television is especially desired.
5. All applicants must list their school name and location, course title with the number of semester or quarter units, and completion dates in the Supplemental Questions section of the application.
6. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency.  A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf.
Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide proof of qualifying coursework.	

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Training and Experience Questionnaires must be received on-line by THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2017.


In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will have their Training and Experience Questionnaire evaluated in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received.  Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from January 27, 2017 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Training and Experience Questionnaire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Qualifying
                                    Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist of a qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire and an interview.  In the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire, candidates may be examined for knowledge of: principles, practices, methods, and techniques used in video production work; video production workflow and related equipment sufficient to understand equipment and facility needs for video production; safety principles, practices, and procedures pertaining to video production operations and equipment sufficient to avoid common safety hazards, injury to self and others, property damage, and exposure to liability; time-management and organizational principles, practices, and techniques sufficient to effectively coordinate multiple video productions and projects; and the ability to plan, organize, and coordinate video production projects and operations sufficient to schedule all productions and book all staff and facilities for all productions in a timely manner; prioritize and meet deadlines in order to produce accurate work; coordinate the integration of video, computer systems, social media, and web formats into an overall production; organize video production and presentation for live events, theater performances and presentations, and online activities; use computer software for video production, including Premier, Final/Cut Pro, Avid, ScheduALL, Photoshop, and other related software programs; communicate in writing in a clear, concise, and effective manner sufficient to prepare accurate reports and correspondence; communicate orally in order to effectively discuss technical and other information with supervisors, representatives, contractors, vendors and the public; interact tactfully and effectively with City officials, employees, representatives from outside agencies, contractors, vendors or the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

The qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire will be submitted to an expert review panel for evaluation.  The expert review panel will assign a numeric score for each candidate based on an assessment of each candidate's qualifications as described on the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire.  Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the expert review panel.

Passing Score for the Qualifying Test

The passing score for the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire will be determined by Personnel Department staff after the qualifying test is administered.  Consideration will be given to the number of candidates taking the test and the existing and anticipated number of vacancies, such that there are a sufficient number of eligibles on the list to satisfy current and future vacancies for the next two years.  Therefore, the passing score for the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire may be set either above or below 70%.

Candidates must achieve a passing score on the qualifying Training and Experience Questionnaire in order to be invited to the interview.

The examination score will be based entirely on the interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and professional development as they have provided knowledge of: principles, practices, methods, and techniques used in video production work; video production workflow and related equipment sufficient to understand equipment and facility needs for video production; safety principles, practices, and procedures pertaining to video production operations and equipment sufficient to avoid common safety hazards, injury to self and others, property damage, and exposure to liability; time-management and organizational principles, practices, and techniques sufficient to effectively coordinate multiple video productions and projects; and the ability to plan, organize, and coordinate video production projects and operations sufficient to schedule all productions, book all staff and facilities for all productions in a timely manner; prioritize and meet deadlines in order to produce accurate work; coordinate the integration of video, computer systems, social media, and web formats into an overall production; organize video production and presentation for live events, theater performances and presentations, and online activities; use computer software for video production, including Premier, Final/Cut Pro, Avid, ScheduALL, Photoshop, and other related software programs; communicate in writing in a clear, concise, and effective manner sufficient to prepare accurate reports and correspondence; communicate orally in order to effectively discuss technical and other information with supervisors, representatives, contractors, vendors and the public; interact tactfully and effectively with City officials, employees, representatives from outside agencies, contractors, vendors or the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.  	

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of APRIL 3, 2017 to APRIL 14, 2017. 

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% in the interview portion of the examination is required to be placed on the eligible list.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY 
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.


Code No. 1802. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .01-27-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

