DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
BUREAU OF SANITATION


EXEMPT EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY


DATE:	March 10, 2015

EXEMPT EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY FOR (3) VOCATIONAL WORKER Is (in-lieu of Custodian) 


APPLICATION DEADLINE:	Tuesday, March 24, 2015 at 4:00 p.m.

POSITIONS AVAILABLE:

Three (3) Vocational Worker I positions in the Hyperion Treatment Division (HTD), Maintenance Section, located at 12000 Vista del Mar, Playa del Rey, California. 

MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
These positions are open to all who apply with a valid California Driver's License.

DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Under the direction of a Chief Custodian Supervisor, a Vocational Worker I (in-lieu of Custodian) will perform a variety of cleaning and janitorial tasks on Swing Shift. The assignment of the Vocational Workers to this Shift is necessary to perform work that would disrupt other employees. 

Duties include: sweeping; stripping and waxing floors, stairwells, mopping hallways, and waiting rooms; cleaning showers, locker rooms, elevators, and lavatories; replenishing soap, towels and paper goods; washing walls, windows, ventilators, and doors; removing of dirt and scuff marks; cleaning offices, including dusting furniture and counters; emptying trash receptacles; polishing various items; vacuuming and shampooing carpeting; moving and arranging tables and chairs for scheduled activities and other related duties.

SKILLS, KNOWLEDGES, ABILITIES, AND PERSONAL QUALIFICATIONS

* Cleaning methods, materials, chemicals, disinfectants, custodial equipment and their     care and general maintenance requirements;
* Safety practices as applied to custodial equipment and work;
* Safety practices as applied to the use of ladders;
* Fire prevention and control;
* Cleaning machinery and equipment;
* Operating electric cleaning and other light custodial equipment;
* Will sustain physical work;
* Handle fragile items carefully;
VOCATIONAL WORKER I
Page 2


* Understand and follow oral and written directions;
* Deal tactfully and effectively with other employees and the public; and
* Possess sufficient communication skills to understand and carry out work instructions.

PLEASE NOTE:  A certificate and completion of 60 hours of training in the course Custodial/Building and Grounds Fundamentals is not required, but is recommended. 

SELECTION PROCEDURE

Depending on the number of candidates who apply, all City applications will be reviewed in order to identify candidates who's past and present work experience are most closely related to the duties and requirements. 

Final selection will be based on an oral interview where candidates will be evaluated for their skills, knowledge, abilities, and personal qualifications in the position.  In addition, the interviewers may contact present and former supervisors and may review candidates' personnel folders as part of the selection process. All candidates who are interviewed will be notified of the final results of the selection process.

HOW TO APPLY

Candidates interested in applying for these positions should fax or mail a City application by the application deadline date to:

City of Los Angeles, Bureau of Sanitation 
Personnel Section - Hyperion Treatment Division
Attention: Alicia Ordaz
12000 Vista del Mar
Playa del Rey, California 90293
Mail Stop: 535
Telephone: (310) 648-5782 
Fax: (310) 648-5397


All application material must be received by Tuesday, March 24, 2015 at 4:00 p.m.  


EXEMPT EMPLOYMENT

If employment is said to be exempt, it is meant that the employment is exempted from
the civil service provisions of the City Charter. In order to receive a regular civil service
appointment, employees must have successfully participated in a civil service examination, received a high enough score on the examination to be placed on and
receive an appointment from an eligible list, and they must serve a probationary period.

Exempt employees do not compete in a civil service examination, they are not placed
on an eligible list and receive an appointment from that list, nor do they serve a
probationary period. As a result, exempt employees do not have what is referred to as
a "property interest" in their job. Exempt employees serve at the will of the appointing
authority and can be terminated at any time without cause. Employees with a property
interest in their job, i.e. civil service employees, cannot be deprived of their employment
(discharged or suspended) without due process.

GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT EXEMPT EMPLOYMENT

Exempt employees serve at the will of the appointing authority, and as such, they may
be discharged, suspended or otherwise disciplined without cause.

Exempt employees have no property interest in their employment, and any procedural
benefit or other prerogative extended to them by their appointing authority is not
intended to create and does not create any such property interest.

No officer or employee of the City may make to any other officer or employee any
representation of a property interest in employment which does not correspond to
Charter provisions unless the City Council, by ordinance, permits such representation.
No unauthorized representation can serve as the basis of an employee's reliance on, or
expectation of, a property interest.

FOR EXEMPT EMPLOYEES SEEKING TO BECOME CIVIL SERVICE
EMPLOYEES

There is no protective leave for an exempt employee appointed to a civil service
position. Upon receiving a civil service appointment and passing probation, the former
exempt employee will be subject to the Civil Service provisions described in Article X of
the City Charter. Upon appointment, the civil service employee will begin to accrue
displacement and layoff seniority on the first day of his/her civil service appointment and
may file for promotional examinations for which s/he qualifies. A full or half-time exempt
employee appointed to a full or half-time civil service position continues to: contribute to
the Retirement System; accrue vacation time; accrue sick time; receive anniversary
date salary increases; and, receive health and dental benefits identical to those
received in the civil service position.

