WAREHOUSE AND TOOLROOM WORKER

Class Code:       1832
Open Date:  09-14-18
Revised:  12-12-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$39,672 to $57,983; $41,551 to $60,760
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $55,895 to $69,446; $57,148 to $71,012; $59,320 to $73,685; $74,291 to $78,425.

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Warehouse and Toolroom Worker performs manual and clerical work in ordering, receiving, storing, issuing, and accounting for materials, supplies, automotive parts, tools, and equipment; may be required to lift boxes, load and unload trucks, package materials and make supply deliveries; may operate motor-driven and various material handling and lifting equipment, including forklifts, jacks, and hoists. May perform minor repair, maintenance, and assembly on tools, equipment and materials; and does related work.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. One year of full-time paid experience or 2,080 cumulative work hours in a warehouse or stockroom receiving, storing, and accounting for materials or supplies; or 
2. Six months of full-time paid experience as a Utility Pre-Craft Trainee with the Department of Water and Power assisting with receiving, storing, and accounting for materials or supplies in a warehouse or stockroom. 

PROCESS NOTES

1. Some positions may require a valid California Class A or B driver's license and valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles, prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
2. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. A warehouse is a storage facility that includes a loading dock or dedicated area for shipping and receiving, as well as an area for the storage, distribution, and/or issuing of parts, materials, and/or supplies. A stockroom is a material storage area that has a documented inventory managed by an automated material system.
4. Forklift certification is required for most positions.
5. High school graduation is desired but not required.
6. Experience with use of a computer-based inventory management system used for inputting, tracking, or updating the status of materials and supplies is desired but not required.
7. Many of these positions require lifting items weighing up to approximately 70 pounds for the purpose of loading and unloading trucks on a daily basis.
8. Because a Warehouse and Toolroom Worker has access to and is responsible for property, candidates with convictions may be disqualified.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin. Applications submitted before the start of the filing period will not be accepted. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications will only be accepted on-line on the dates listed below: 

From 8:00 am Tuesday, November 5, 2019 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, November 7, 2019
From 8:00 am Tuesday, November 3, 2020 to 11:59 pm, Thursday, November 5, 2020

The examination may close without prior notice at any time after a sufficient number of applications have been received. Filing periods may change without prior notice or additional dates may be added, as needed, at a later date. For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen on the dates noted in the "Application Deadline" section of this bulletin. 

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the selection process in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs based on a random sampling of these qualified candidates. Applications submitted during the filing period may be kept on file in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Multiple-Choice Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of a multiple-choice test. In the multiple-choice test, the following competencies may be evaluated: reading comprehension; mathematics; safety focus including safety procedures and Cal/OSHA guidelines specific to driving and traffic safety hand signals; handling, moving and storing of hazardous substances; reviewing Safety Data Sheets (SDS); and use of personal protective equipment (PPE); customer service; teamwork; and job knowledge including knowledge of: proper packing procedures sufficient to efficiently box, pack, store, and/or prepare supplies; standard abbreviations for liquid measurements and units of issue and order sufficient to designate weights and measures, verify deliveries, check stock, and provide materials to field personnel in the requested amount; common clerical practices such as filing in alphabetical, chronological and numerical order sufficient to organize and maintain hard copy files in a clear and understandable manner; various types of manual and power tools, equipment, and materials commonly found in warehouses, toolrooms, or supply rooms; rigging procedures and various types of tools, and equipment used to move materials of differing sizes, shapes, and types; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=jobanalyses and clicking on Competencies under Warehouse and Toolroom Worker.

The next multiple-choice test administration will be held in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2019 in Los Angeles. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the multiple-choice test. Additional test dates will be added as needed. 

For future test administrations, candidates may have the option of choosing to take the multiple-choice test in-person at a City facility or on-line. Those who choose to take the multiple-choice test on-line may do so as instructed from a remote location, which may include your home or City facility, using a computer with a webcam and a reliable internet connection. Candidates will be notified by e-mail if this option becomes available.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. You may take the Warehouse and Toolroom Worker written test only once every 365 days. If you have taken the Warehouse and Toolroom Worker written test during an open filing period in the Personnel Department within the last 365 days, you may not file for this examination at this time.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
5. Based on City policy, before being hired in one of these positions, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol screening test.
6. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
7. Your rank on the employment list may change as scores of candidates from other administrations of the examination are merged onto one list.
8. Your name may be removed from the eligible list after 12 months.
9. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY ON
AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 1832 CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .09-14-18 REV 12-12-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

