WASTEWATER TREATMENT ELECTRICIAN


Class Code:       5615
Open Date:  06-08-12
Revised: 01-12-18
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$96,423 (flat-rated) and $106,028 (flat-rated)

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer. 

DUTIES

A Wastewater Treatment Electrician performs skilled electrical work in the installation, maintenance, overhaul, repair, and testing of power generating and distribution equipment, rotating equipment and their associated digital and analog controls including micro-processor based controls, devices and systems; utility protective relays and controls; fiber optic cable, terminations and devices; communications and signaling systems; standby and emergency power sources, and other electrical equipment found in wastewater collection and treatment facilities; and may serve as a lead worker for other employees engaged in this work.

NOTE:

A Wastewater Treatment Electrician may be required to work nights and/or weekends.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Completion of a recognized five-year electrical apprenticeship program and submission of an apprenticeship certificate; or
2. Three years of full-time paid experience as an electrician which provides experience in the installation and/or maintenance of industrial electrical circuits and equipment, including large power transformers, power circuit breakers; SF6 gas insulated switchgear, or diesel powered electrical generating equipment; or
3. Five years of full-time paid experience as an Electrical Craft Helper with the City of Los Angeles assisting a Wastewater Treatment Electrician, Electrician, or Electrical Mechanic performing the duties as described in Requirement #2.  (In the application, candidates must identify which classification they assisted as an Electrical Craft Helper); or
4. An Associate of Science degree or a Certificate of Completion in Electrical Technology from a recognized community college or trade school and one year of full-time paid experience performing the duties as described in Requirement #2; or
5. Three years of full-time paid experience as an Electrical Mechanic with the City of Los Angeles.

PROCESS NOTE

Candidates filing under Requirement #1 must submit a copy of the electrical apprenticeship certificate prior to certification.  Only those candidates who submit their certificates can be certified in order of standing on the eligible list to fill existing vacancies.  The certificate may be attached to the on-line application at the time of filing; or emailed to personnel.backgrounds@lacity.org with the subject line "Certification - Wastewater Treatment Electrician 5615"; or mailed to: Personnel Department, 700 E. Temple Street, Room 235, Los Angeles, CA 90012.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.





APPLICATION DEADLINE

Filing may be closed without prior notice after a sufficient number of applications are received.  For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and reopen the following workday. 

The written test for Wastewater Treatment Electrician will be held on the second Saturday of every other month until further notice.

Candidates whose City applications are received and approved by Thursday two weeks prior to the scheduled written test date will be scheduled to take the test on the 2nd Saturday of the following month.

The written test will be administered in a single half-day session. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be held in Los Angeles.


SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a multiple-choice written test in which candidates may be examined for knowledge of: different types of installations such as industrial, process, office and underground; theory and principles of direct current and alternating current; safety principles, regulations, and practices including Cal/OSHA regulations, procedures for working near energized equipment or areas of high fire danger, and protective clothing and equipment; mathematics sufficient to calculate lengths, areas, volumes, and quantities of materials and to do electrical calculations such as power factors, current-voltage relationships, or setting ranges on meters; ability to: construct electrical systems; use and modify plans for electrical construction in compliance with the National Electrical, LA Municipal, and State Codes and safety orders; install, inspect, maintain, overhaul, repair, and troubleshoot low, medium, and high voltage transformers, meter and conventional controls, relays, protective devices, and power consumption meters, 110v and 220v wiring and lighting systems, low, medium, and high voltage switchboards and switching systems, motors and generators, motor control systems, uninterruptible power supplies, and batteries and D.C. power supplies; read and interpret technical reports, diagrams, codes, Cal/OSHA regulations and standards; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection
2. You may take this test only once every 365 days during the administration of this examination.
3. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding 0.25 of a point seniority credit for each year of service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
4. The incumbents of some positions in this class may be subject to periodic medical work fitness evaluations and also may be required to be clean shaven for use of Self Contained Breathing Apparatus.  This is based on OSHA regulations that require employees in positions involving work in confined spaces to meet certain medical criteria.
5. Based on City policy, before being hired in one of these positions, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol screening test.
6. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
7. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
8. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
9. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
10. In conjunction with Civil Service rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
11. Your rank on the employment list may change as candidates from other administrations of the examination are merged onto one list.
12. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license prior to appointment.  Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if within the past 36 months they were convicted of a major moving violation, such as driving under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs, and may be disqualified if there are three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents within the past 36 months. 

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 5615 CONT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .06-18-12 REV 01-12-18

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 


