WASTEWATER TREATMENT ELECTRICIAN SUPERVISOR

Class Code:       5613
Open Date:  06-05-15
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$106,080 (flat-rated)

NOTES:


1. For information regarding reciprocity between City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to: http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Wastewater Treatment Electrician Supervisor assigns, reviews and evaluates the work of Wastewater Treatment Electricians and other workers engaged in skilled electrical work in the installation, maintenance, overhaul, repair, and testing of power generating and distribution equipment, rotating equipment and their associated digital and analog logic controls including micro-processor based controls, devices, and systems; conformance to electrical and building codes, and safety related work practices for working on, or in proximity to, open energized low and high voltage conductors and equipment; utility protective relays and controls; fiber optic cable, terminations and devices; communications and signaling systems; standby and emergency power sources, and other electrical equipment found in wastewater collection and treatment facilities and on adjacent grounds; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Wastewater Treatment Electrician or in a class at the level of Senior Electrician with experience in the installation, maintenance or repair of industrial electrical equipment including large transformers of 4160 volts or more, circuit breakers, switchgears and steam and gas powered electrical power generating equipment; or
2. Four years of full-time paid experience in a class at the level of Electrician with experience in the installation, maintenance or repair of industrial electrical equipment including large transformers of 4160 volts or more, circuit breakers, switchgears and steam and gas powered electrical power generating equipment.

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Cal/OSHA Regulations and Department Regulations require the wearing of a Self Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA) under hazardous and emergency conditions.  Therefore, as a condition of employment, all employees in this class must ensure they are free from certain types of facial hair and medical conditions so that a SCBA can be worn safely.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line.  When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon.  On-line job bulletins are available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm?promotionaljobs=1 for Promotional Examinations.

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of an evaluation of the candidate's professional and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, candidates will be assessed on their knowledge of: operating principles and methods for installation, maintenance, overhaul, repair and testing of electrical transformers; oil, vacuum, and air blast circuit breakers; relays and protective devices; 110v and 277v wiring and lighting systems; low, medium, and high voltage switchboards and switching system; motors and generators operating at up to 2500 horsepower and 4800 volts; motor control systems; logic circuits; procedures and tools used for wiring electrical circuits and boards; materials and tools used for work on motors and generators; materials and tools used for work on electrical equipment; disciplinary steps as set by Department policies; Equal Employment Opportunity polices; principles of supervision; supervisory techniques; safety principles and regulations; ability to: prepare estimates of time and cost budgets and schedules for various jobs, and to review estimates prepared by subordinates; communicate technical and other information orally with subordinates, supervisors, engineers, and contractors; read and interpret material; read and interpret codes and standards; interact tactfully and effectively with a wide variety of individuals; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of AUGUST 17, 2015 through AUGUST 28, 2015.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City applications by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications are met.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 5613 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06-05-15

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

