WATER SERVICES MANAGER

Class Code:       9602
Open Date:  08-12-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$196,000 to $243,502 and $216,233 to $268,662

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES  

A Water Services Manager serves as a Director or Assistant Director in the Water Distribution Division of the Water and Power; may act as staff advisor to an Assistant General Manager and/or the General Manager; manages, through subordinate managers and supervisors, the planning, design, construction, maintenance, and operation of waterworks facilities and structure; demonstrates commitment to safety by engaging in activities with the Joint Safety Institute; enforces all LADWP safety policies and applicable federal, state, and local regulations; supports employee training and development; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities; and directs the development, review, implementation, and maintenance of division policies, procedures, work programs, training, and safety programs.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Two years of full-time paid experience as a Water Utility Superintendent with the City of Los Angeles; and
2. A California State Water Resources Control Board Distribution Operator Certificate, level D3 or higher, issued by the California State Water Resources Control Board is required at the time of filing, and must be maintained throughout employment in this classification.

PROCESS NOTES

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete a Water Services Manager Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Water Services Manager Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
4. Applicants must attach a copy of their certification to the on-line application before the application is submitted. If this certification is attached after the on-line application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and the applicants will not be credited with having submitted the certification. Applicants who fail to submit their certification at the time of filing by attaching it to the on-line application will not be considered further in this examination.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016.

SELECTION PROCESS  

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight: Essay. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Advisory
Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's work experience and professional development as they have provided the background necessary to perform the duties of a Water Services Manager, including knowledge of: procedures, problems, and terminology related to administering the activities of a large division engaged in major Water System facility construction, installation, maintenance, operation, and repair; the organization of the LADWP Water System, including the functions and interrelationships of its divisions; the general principles of domestic water supply as applied to the flow of water through transmission and distribution systems; Federal, state, and local regulations pertaining to the safe delivery of water through water distribution systems; State Distribution Operator regulations; intra-agency relations as they apply to collective bargaining and labor organizations; infrastructure, water supply, and safety rules, regulations, policies and procedures affecting the operations of the LADWP Water System; National Incident Management Systems (NIMS) and Incident Command Systems (ICS); pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies, and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity and Memoranda of Understanding as it relates to subordinate personnel; management and supervisory principles and practices, including directing, planning, delegating, and evaluating the work of subordinates; the LADWP Water System budget and basic organizational processes; and the ability to use sound judgment and take appropriate action in emergency situations; manage, through subordinate managers and supervisors, a diverse workforce engaged in complex field and office activities; plan, organize, direct, and coordinate the work of a large group of technical, professional, craft, and clerical employees; oversee the preparation and implementation of training programs for subordinate staff; deal tactfully and effectively with elected officials, commissioners, contractors, representative of other utilities, and the public; establish and maintain a positive and constructive work environment; communicate effectively, both orally and in writing; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.

As part of their evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will also consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire. Candidates may expect panel members to discuss this information during the interviews. Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the interview panel.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the date, time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of NOVEMBER 7, 2016 to NOVEMBER 18, 2016.  

Candidates will also be required to prepare some written material related to the duties of a Water Services Manager. This essay material will not be scored separately, but will be presented to the interview panel for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of candidates' qualifications. Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their responses. Those who do not complete the advisory essay will not be invited to the interview and will be considered to have failed the entire examination. Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the advisory essay session, which will be held in a single half day session in Los Angeles on SATURDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2016.

NOTES:

1. Appointment to this position is subject to a one-year probationary period as provided by Section 1011 of the Los Angeles City Charter.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.	
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Candidates will accrue seniority at the rate of 0.10 of a point for each year of service in those City classes which provide qualifying experience for this position. A maximum of one point will be added to the score of the candidates.
7. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.
8. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 9602 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  08-12-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYEE

