WATER SERVICE WORKER
Class Code:       3931
Open Date:  04-06-18
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)


ANNUAL SALARY 

$64,310 to $79,886; $67,275 to $83,582; $81,139 to $85,670; $70,657 to $87,779; $85,378 to $90,138; and $78,822 to $97,927

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

A Water Service Worker inspects, repairs, rebuilds, tests, and calibrates a variety of water meters in a meter shop and in field installations; does minor maintenance work on service connections and appurtenant water service equipment; and performs routine and requested inspections of consumers' property and plumbing facilities. 

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. One year of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Water Utility Worker; or
2. Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles as a Meter Reader or Commercial Field Representative; or
3. Two years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles in the installation, maintenance, or repair of water distribution mains, water service connections and appurtenant equipment, pressure regulators, gauges, meters, or other similar control and recording instruments or devices.

PROCESS NOTES 

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. A valid Grade 2 Distribution Operator Certificate issued by the California Department of Public Health may be required for some positions.
4. Applicants qualifying under Requirement #3 with experience as a Senior Gardener or Irrigation Specialist with a water utility worker bonus must submit verification of such bonus.  In addition to the regular City application, applicants who wish to use their City of Los Angeles work experience to meet this requirement are required to submit a City of Los Angeles "Verification of Work Experience" (VWE) form, with the required signatures, verifying their experience as a Senior Gardener or Irrigation Specialist with a water utility 
worker bonus. The VWE form should indicate the type of work performed and the amount of time spent performing such work. The form may be downloaded at http://per.lacity.org/exams/vwe-sup.pdf or may be obtained at the Personnel Department, 700 E. Temple Street, Room 100, Los Angeles, CA 90012. Applicants may attach the completed Verification of Work (VWE) form to their on-line application at the time of filing or will have seven (7) calendar days from the on-line submission date to submit a copy of their completed VWE form to: Personnel Department, 700 E. Temple Street, Room 100, Los Angeles, CA 90012. Applicants who fail to submit a copy of their VWE form within the time required will not be considered in this examination and their applications will not be processed.




SELECTIVE CERTIFICATION

In accordance with Charter Section 1010 (b) and Civil Service Rule 5.31, selective certification will be used for some positions that require the ability to speak or write a language other than English.  Only persons who have the necessary language skills may be certified in order of standing on the eligible list to fill such positions.  If you have the ability to speak or write a language other than English, indicate this language in the appropriate box on the application.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs  for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, APRIL 19, 2018.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist of a weighted written test. In the written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, the following competencies may be evaluated: reading comprehension, judgment and decision making, attention to detail, safety focus, mechanical aptitude, customer service, and job knowledge, including knowledge of: water meters such as turbines, compounds, detector checks, and fire lines sufficient to know how various types of water meters operate as well as understand the purpose of the water meter; water service terminology such as nutation, oscillation, fire service meters, domestic meters, irrigation meters, radio frequency, head loss, piston or disc, meter register, main, service lateral, pressure regulator, relief valve, water softener, property line, center line, curb line, property pipe, and meter housing sufficient to understand and use this terminology during projects or assignments; proper use and handling of tools such as screwdrivers, wrenches, drills, oxygen/acetylene cutting torches, and various pneumatic and hydraulic tools sufficient to use them properly and safely; pressure gauges and water meters sufficient to obtain accurate readings; and the ability to use maps, global positioning systems, and water service maps sufficient to find addresses, navigate routes to work, determine correct locations, addresses, service numbers and size of water service; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities.
 
Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/jobanalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Water Service Worker.

Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, JUNE 9, 2018, in Los Angeles.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
4. A final average score of 70% or above is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
6. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3931 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04-06-18


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to:  http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess

