WATER UTILITY WORKER
Class Code:       3912
Open Date:  12-08-17
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY   

The salary range in the Department of Water and Power is $67,275 to $83,582; $72,537 to $90,138; $88,176 to $93,083; and $90,055 to $95,066.

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. Annual salary is the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Water Utility Worker installs, maintains, operates, replaces, and repairs water mains, services, fire hydrants, water meters, and appurtenant valves and equipment.


REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Eighteen months of full-time paid experience in the installation, and either operation and/or maintenance of all of the following:

a) Potable water services, and
b) Potable water supply and distribution pipelines such as mains, and/or trunk lines, and 
c) Appurtenant valves and equipment.

OR

2. Eighteen months of full-time paid experience in the installation, and either operation and/or maintenance of all of the following while in the United States Armed Forces:

a) Potable water services, and
b) Potable water supply and distribution pipelines such as mains, and/or trunk lines, and
c) Appurtenant valves and equipment.

PROCESS NOTES

1. A California State Water Resources Control Board Distribution Operator Grade D2 certificate may be required prior to completion of the probationary period.
2. Active United States Military personnel may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until they have completed their military service and have been discharged with satisfactory performance. Proof of military service and satisfactory performance must be provided prior to appointment.
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 must submit, at the time of filing their application, a copy of their DD-214 or a copy of their military identification indicating End of Active Obligated Service (EAOS) date within six months from the application date. The copy of the DD-214 or military identification with EAOS must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the copy is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the DD-214 or military identification with EAOS at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination. 
4. Some positions may require a valid California Class B (or A) driver's license and valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). For positions requiring a valid Class A or B driver's license, candidates will be asked to submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVS Section 1808.1 prior to appointment.


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications WILL ONLY BE ACCEPTED ON-LINE. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs  for Promotional Examinations. 


NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.


APPLICATION DEADLINE

Filing may be closed without prior notice after a sufficient number of applications are received. Immediate vacancies will be filled from among those who apply first. Other vacancies will be filled as the need arises. For administrative purposes, filing will close periodically and re-open the following workday.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years, in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written Test  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist of a weighted written test. In the weighted written test, which will consist of multiple-choice questions, the following competencies may be evaluated, including knowledge of:  methods, materials, fittings, tools and equipment used in the installation, maintenance, and repair of water service, mains, water meters, fire hydrants, and appurtenant water distribution equipment; parts and functions of valves and fire hydrants; trenching and shoring practices; locating substructures; vehicle inspections; and safety practices, including work area protection and traffic control;  the ability to: join pipe connections; tap water mains; use power and hand tools weighing up to 90 lbs.; operate compressors, dewatering pumps, and generators; deal tactfully and effectively with the public and crew members/co-workers; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session. The first date scheduled for the written test is on FEBRUARY 10, 2018, in Los Angeles. Future test dates will be scheduled at a later time.
 
NOTES:		

1. This examination is based on a validation study.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list. 
5. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
6. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
7. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
8. You may take this examination only once every 365 days. Your name may be removed from the employment list after 365 days.
9. Your rank on the eligible list may change as the score of candidates from other administrations of this examination are merged onto one list.
10. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit as indicated above, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
11. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.  
Class Code 3912 CONT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-01-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess 



Class Code 3912. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .04-11-03


