WATERWORKS ENGINEER 

Class Code:      7248
Open Date: 07-15-16
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$116,740 to $145,032

NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Waterworks Engineer plans, organizes, and directs the work of engineers and other personnel engaged in planning, constructing, maintaining, and operating waterworks facilities and structures;  oversees and directs engineers and other personnel engaged in water resource planning, water quality compliance or water system operations; oversees and directs the preparation of specifications, designs, plans, estimates, environmental studies, reports, and hydrologic surveys; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Two years of full-time paid professional engineering or engineering geology experience in a position at least at  the level of Civil Engineering Associate II, Class Code 7246; and
2. Registration as a Professional Engineer or possession of both Registered Geologist and Engineering Geologist licenses issued by the California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists.

NOTES:

1. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete a Waterworks Engineer Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing. The Waterworks Engineer Qualifications Questionnaire is located within the Supplemental Questions section of the City application. Applicants who fail to complete the Qualifications Questionnaire will not be considered further in this examination, and their application will not be processed.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination.  However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met. 
3. A State of California Department of Public Health Water Distribution Operator Certificate (Grade 2, 3, 4 or 5) may be required for some positions.
4. For qualifying work experience gained outside of the City of Los Angeles, the term "professional experience" applies to positions that require possession of a degree from an accredited four-year college or university in order to obtain that position. Therefore, to be considered "professional," non-City qualifying experience must be gained in positions after obtaining a four-year degree. 
5. Please note that qualifying education must be from a college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20Institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying degree.
6. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).


WHERE TO APPLY

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications and Qualifications Questionnaires must be received by THURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016.
        
SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight: Essay. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Advisory
													   Interview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation by interview.  In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's work experience and professional development as they have provided the background necessary to perform the duties of a Waterworks Engineer, including knowledge of: the principles and practices of engineering, hydraulics, structural engineering, soil mechanics, geology, and hydrology as applied to the design, planning, construction, maintenance, and operation of waterworks facilities and structures; procurement process used to award contracts and professional services agreements; budget process as it affects project funding; water system deficiencies and operational characteristics, including control, mechanical, and electrical systems of waterworks facilities; techniques used to treat water sufficiently to maintain water quality; materials used in waterworks facilities; testing and analysis methods used to evaluate the materials used in waterworks facilities; safety rules, policies and practices as applied to the Water System; rules, policies, procedures and regulations affecting waterworks projects, infrastructure, and operations, including pertinent City Charter provisions and water policies; project management practices and techniques, including economic analysis of projects, work order hierarchies, project scheduling, project coordination sufficient to direct and coordinate the activities of others, and awareness of resources such as workforce, funding, materials and equipment needed for the successful completion of waterworks projects; supervisory principles and practices, including planning and controlling, motivating, employee discipline, training, and evaluating performance of subordinate personnel; pertinent City and Personnel Department rules, policies and procedures, including Equal Employment Opportunity policy and Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) as they relate to subordinate personnel; drafting and design methods, regulations, and policies; and the ability to use computer programs to review plans and develop specifications, reports, and presentations; prepare clear and detailed written communications, such as technical reports and letters; communicate orally in a clear, concise and convincing manner; deal tactfully and effectively with employees, customers, the public, and others; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

As part of their evaluation of each candidate's overall qualifications for the job, the interview panel members will also consider the information in the candidate's Qualifications Questionnaire.  Candidates may expect panel members to discuss this information during the interviews.  Unsolicited supplemental information will not be submitted to the interview panel.

Candidates will also be notified later by e-mail of the date, time and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles. It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of SEPTEMBER 26, 2016 to OCTOBER 7, 2016.  

Candidates will also be required to prepare some written material related to the duties of a Waterworks Engineer. This essay material will not be scored separately, but will be presented to the interview panel for discussion with each candidate and for consideration in the overall evaluation of candidates' qualifications.  Candidates may anticipate that PCs (personal computers) will be made available to type their responses.  Those who do not complete the advisory essay will not be invited to the interview and will be considered to have failed the entire examination.  Candidates will be notified later by e-mail of the time and location of the advisory essay session, which will be held in a single half day session in Los Angeles on SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2016.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. Seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous service will be added to the weighted test score of each candidate.
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY 
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 7248 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07-15-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

