WATER UTILITY OPERATOR
Class Code:       5854
Open Date:  08-05-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY

$54,308 to $67,484; $60,280 to $74,875; $63,099 to $78,383; $70,240 to $87,278

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions. 
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Water Utility Operator inspects, operates, and maintains electric water pumping plants, reservoirs, wells and related water facilities; patrols reservoirs to locate hazardous or potentially hazardous conditions; and monitors the operation of the computerized Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System (SCADA).

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. A valid California State Water Resources Control Board Grade D2 Water Distribution Operator Certificate; and
2. Three years of full-time paid potable or waste water system experience in the construction, maintenance, or operation of water system facilities; or
3. One year of full-time paid experience in electrical or mechanical work involving the operation, maintenance, or repair of large pumps, motors, engines or generators such as those found in an engine room on a ship or in an electric pumping plant.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the above required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. A valid California driver's license is required. Applicants will be disqualified and not eligible for hire if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
3. A valid California State Water Resources Control Board Grade D2 Water Distribution Operator Certificate is required at the time of filing.  Applicants who fail to submit this document at the time of filing by not attaching it to the on-line application will not be considered further in this examination.  
4. Entry-level positions in this class are temporary training positions as defined in Civil Service Commission Rule 5.30, and receive training in the operation and maintenance of electric pumping plants, reservoirs, wells and related facilities, and are expected to satisfactorily complete the training program within 30 months of appointment.
5. Water Utility Operators may be assigned to work overtime, irregular shifts, weekends and holidays.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, AUGUST 18, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the multiple-choice test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City Promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from August 5, 2016, in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs. 

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Multiple-Choice Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist of a multiple-choice test administered on a computer. In the multiple-choice test, the following competencies may be evaluated: mathematics, judgment and decision making, self-management, safety focus, mechanical aptitude, follow written directions, and job knowledge including knowledge of: how to properly tag equipment (e.g., pumps, valves, and control panels) and logging procedures in order to indicate that the equipment is being replaced, out of service, and/or undergoing routine maintenance; fundamentals and principles of basic electricity, mechanics, hydraulics, and/or geology in order to determine if equipment is operating properly or needs repair by manual, audible, or visual inspection and/or to recognize and report to management potential dam problems after conducting a visual inspection of the dam face; water system workings including but not limited to water service zones, pumping plants, regulators, trunk lines, and water storage facilities in order to determine system irregularities and/or to ensure proper operation; various pumps, electrical motors, internal combustion engines, and/or valves sufficient to identify them and to operate them safely and properly; various meters and/or gauges sufficient to read them and determine if the readings are within the predesignated operating parameters; preventive and routine maintenance on mechanical equipment sufficient to ensure that the equipment operates properly; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Additional information can be obtained by going to http://per.lacity.org/eeo/jobanalyses.htm and clicking on Competencies under Water Utility Operator.

The multiple-choice test will be administered on a computer during a single half-day session held on SATURDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2016. Candidates invited to participate in the multiple-choice test will be required to self-schedule themselves for a specific time and location. The testing locations will be available throughout the Los Angeles Metropolitan area and within and outside the state of California. Candidates will receive an e-mail from the City of Los Angeles outlining the specific steps on how to self-schedule themselves, and will be required to do so by MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2016. Candidates that do not self-schedule themselves within the required time will not be considered further in this examination.

NOTES:

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf. 
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% or higher is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. In conjunction with Civil Service rules, applicants who are current eligible City employees or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered open candidates. 
6. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.
7. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Section 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve problems prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN 
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 5854 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .08-05-16


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

