WELDER
Class Code:       3796
Open Date:  10-28-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY
 
$81,703 (flat-rated)
The salary for the Harbor Department is $83,352 (flat-rated)
The salary range in the Department of Water and Power is $76,608 to $99,848. The salary range covers multiple pay grades within the class.

NOTES:

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
3. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

A Welder performs skilled heating, welding, plasma cutting, and brazing, using arc, flux core, MIG, and TIG welding on a variety of modern metals in a shop or in the field, using oxyacetylene and electric welding equipment; layout and fabrication work, using manual and power shears, hydraulic punch presses, notchers, benders, drill presses, disc sanders, bench and box breaks, rollers, and a variety of hand tools; reads blueprints, and maintains equipment, performing minor mechanical repairs.

NOTE:		

A Welder may weld at various heights, including working on scaffolding, in excavations, boats, barges, container cranes, on fuel tanks, and in other hazardous locations.

REQUIREMENTS/MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

1. Completion of a recognized apprenticeship as a welder; or
2. Four years of full-time paid experience in the following welding processes: shielded metal arc, tungsten inert gas, gas metal arc, and oxyacetylene cutting. 

Completion of a welding program at an accredited institution may be substituted for each year of experience lacking up to a maximum of two years at a rate of 15 units in welding to one year of experience specified in Requirement #2.

PROCESS NOTES

1. A LICENSE AS A CERTIFIED WELDER FOR STRUCTURAL STEEL ISSUED BY THE LOS ANGELES CITY DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND SAFETY IS REQUIRED FOR ALL POSITIONS IN THE GENERAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT, FOR MOST OTHER POSITIONS IN THE CITY, AND IN THE DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND POWER PRIOR TO APPOINTMENT.
2. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
3. Applicants filing under Requirement #1 must submit an Apprenticeship Certificate at the time of filing. The copy of the Certificate must be attached to the online application BEFORE the application is submitted. If the Certificate is attached AFTER the online application has been submitted, it will not be available to the City and applicants WILL NOT be credited with having submitted it. Applicants who fail to submit the Certificate at the time of filing by attaching it to the online application will not be considered further in this examination.
4. Applicants filing under Requirement #2 must list their specific welding processes experience separately for each employer with the dates of employment on their application. Applicants who fail to provide this information will not be considered further in this examination.
5. Some positions may require a valid California Class C driver's license; or a valid Class B driver's license and valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles, prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI).
6. In accordance with Section 608 of the Clean Air Act, an Environmental Protection Agency approved Technician Certificate may be required for some positions prior to appointment.
7. Prior to appointment to some positions, Welders will be required to pass the tests for Operator Qualification in accordance with Section IX of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code.
8. Please note that qualifying education must be from a trade school, college or university accredited by a City of Los Angeles recognized agency. A list of approved accrediting agencies can be found at http://per.lacity.org/Accredited%20institutions%2008-21-08.pdf. 
9. Applicants must list their school name and location, course titles with the number of semester or quarter units and completion dates on the Education section of the application.
10. Candidates completing the examination process will be contacted by the Personnel Department to provide required proof of qualifying coursework.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity  for Open Competitive Examinations and at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the written test in the following order: 1) Los Angeles City promotional applicants who meet the minimum requirements. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to apply for this examination as a promotional candidate; 2) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles on a part-time or exempt basis who meet the minimum requirements; 3) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from October 28, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualifications, and in accordance with Rule 4.2 as stated above, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weight:  Written Test   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination score will be based entirely on a multiple-choice test. In the written test, emphasis may be placed on the candidate's experience, training and professional development as they have provided the knowledge of: the operation, adjustment and maintenance of acetylene and electric welding and cutting equipment; cutting, welding, brazing, and hard-facing; the inert gas welding process; fabrication and use of templates; oxyacetylene and air arc cutting; types of welds, joints and welding rods used in welding various metals; properties of ferrous and nonferrous metals in relation to welding and processes necessary to secure welds; stress relieving and annealing; hazards and safety principles and practices applicable to welding operations; ability to layout and fit-up work; read and interpret blueprints and drawings; and other necessary skills, knowledge and abilities.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the time and location of the written test, which will be administered in a single half-day session on SATURDAY, JANUARY 14, 2017, in Los Angeles.

NOTES:	

1. This examination is based on a validation study, and as provided by Civil Service Commission Rule 4.20, the written test will not be subject to candidate inspection.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and, upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities. To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application. The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
5. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
6. Based on City Policy, you may be required to undergo mandatory drug and alcohol testing prior to and during employment in this class.
7. Incumbents of some positions in this class may be required to pass an annual or periodic work fitness evaluation to determine their eligibility for continued employment in this class.
8. The promotional list will ordinarily be used ahead of the open competitive list.  However, if open competitive candidates receive a higher score, without military credits, than the highest available promotional candidate, after adding seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of continuous classified City service, the Civil Service Commission, upon request of the appointing authority, may approve certification of such open competitive candidates ahead of the promotional candidates.  
9. In conjunction with Civil Service Rules, applicants who have received a regular appointment to a City position or are on a reserve list will be considered Promotional candidates while all other applicants will be considered Open candidates.
10. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.

NOTICE:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment. Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN BOTH ON AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL AND AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.



Class Code 3796. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-28-16

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

