WELDER SUPERVISOR
Class Code:       3798
Open Date:  12-08-17
(Exam Open to Current City Employees)
ANNUAL SALARY

$97,895 (flat-rated) 
The salary in the Department of Water and Power is $108,805 to $114,881.

NOTES:

1. Annual salary is at the start of the pay range. The current salary range is subject to change. Please confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
2. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
3. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.

DUTIES

A Welder Supervisor assigns, reviews and evaluates the work of welders and blacksmiths doing skilled heating, forming, welding, cutting, brazing and fabrication in a shop or in the field, using gas and electric welding equipment, may be required to give directions to protective coating workers; applies sound supervisory principles and techniques in building and maintaining an effective work force; and fulfills equal employment opportunity responsibilities.

REQUIREMENT/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION

Four years of full-time paid experience with the City of Los Angeles in a class at the level of Welder performing skilled heating, oxyacetylene cutting, brazing, and welding using arc, MIG, and TIG welding processes on a variety of modern metals in a shop or in the field.

PROCESS NOTES

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience requirement is met.
2. Prior to appointment to some positions, Welder Supervisors may be required to obtain a license as a certified welder for structural steel issued by the Los Angeles City Department of Building and Safety and pass tests for operator qualification in accordance with Section IX of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code.
3. Some positions may require a valid California Class C or B driver's license prior to appointment. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more moving violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major moving violation (such as DUI). 
4. For positions requiring a valid California Class B driver's license, candidates must submit a commercial driving history in accordance with the California Department of Motor Vehicles CVC Section 1808.1 and a valid medical certificate approved by the State of California Department of Motor Vehicles, prior to appointment. 

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/lacity/promotionaljobs for Promotional Examinations. 

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be completed at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, DECEMBER 21, 2017.

SELECTION PROCESS

After meeting minimum qualification, candidates will be scheduled for the following:

Examination Weights:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100%

The examination will consist entirely of experience and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview, emphasis may be placed on the adequacy of the candidate's training, background, and experience as they have provided knowledge of: the operation, care and minor repair of acetylene and electric welding and cutting equipment; cutting, welding, brazing, hard-facing, electrical heating, and other methods of stress; types of welds, joints, and welding rods; properties of ferrous and non-ferrous metals, including the preparation, behavior under the arc flame, and treatment of each; the inert gas welding process; fabrication and use of templates; standard welding symbols as approved by the American Welding Society; supervisory principles, practices, and responsibilities, such as laws and regulations related to Equal Employment Opportunities; planning, delegating, and controlling the work of subordinates; techniques of training, instructing and evaluating employees; techniques for counseling, disciplining and motivating employees; procedures for grievance handling; City personnel rules, policies and procedures; Memoranda of Understanding as they apply to subordinate personnel; hazards, safety, and first aid practices applicable to welding operations; the ability to: read and interpret blueprints and drawings; estimate the time and material needed for a job; interpret specification and direct inspection of contract welding; use basic computer software; supervise certified welding procedures; establish and maintain a work environment; apply supervisory principles and techniques; deal tactfully and effectively with employees and the public; and other necessary skills, knowledge, and abilities. 

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of FEBRUARY 12, 2018 to FEBRUARY 23, 2018. 

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
3. You must have received a regular appointment to a City position or be on a reserve list to file on a promotional basis.
4. Candidates will accrue seniority credit at the rate of 0.25 of a point for each year of service in those City classes which provide qualifying experience for this position.  A maximum of one point will be added to the score of the candidate.
5. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
6. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list. 

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN INTERDEPARTMENTAL PROMOTIONAL BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Class Code 3798 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12-08-17

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
For additional information and FAQs regarding the City's hiring process, please go to: http://per.lacity.org/index.cfm?content=employmenttestingprocess



