X-Ray and Laboratory Technician

Class Code:       2358
Open Date:  01-29-16
(Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY 

$52,200 to $76,295 and $55,164 to $80,638
The salary range in the Department of Water and Power is $56,605 to $70,323.
 
NOTES:

1. For information regarding reciprocity between the City of Los Angeles departments and LADWP, go to http://per.lacity.org/Reciprocity_CityDepts_and_DWP.pdf.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.
3. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.

DUTIES

Takes and develops radiographic images according to established standards of the California Radiology Board. Maintains radiographic records, creates CD of radiographic images as needed and directs digital images to authorized personnel in compliance with HIPAA. Performs phlebotomy; biochemical tests using a desk-top analyzer; urinalysis by urine dipstick; vision testing; U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) urine collection; and Breath Alcohol Testing (BAT) per established protocols. Operates and maintains the radiographic and laboratory equipment. Assists OHS staff in related office activities.

REQUIREMENTS

1. Valid Limited Permits in X-Ray Technology issued by the State of California, Department of Health Services in the following categories: Chest, Extremities, and Torso-skeletal, or possession of a Diagnostic Radiological Technology Certificate issued by the State of California, Department of Health Services; and 
2. One year of experience in taking and developing radiographs and performing urinalysis, phlebotomy or chemical analysis; and
3. A Valid Phlebotomy Certificate in the State of California.

NOTES:

1. Applicants who lack six months or less of the required experience listed in requirement #2 may file for this examination. However, they cannot be appointed until the full experience is met.
2. Candidates must provide their Limited Permit Numbers, as well as specify the categories covered by their Limited Permits, i.e., Chest, Extremities, etc., in the Licenses and Types section of the application, as well as in the Supplemental Questions section.
3. A valid Basic Cardiac Life Support certificate is required prior to appointment. 
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if their record within the last 36 months reflects three or more violations and/or at-fault accidents, or a conviction of a major violation (such as DUI).

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the top of the page and select the "Apply" icon. On-line job bulletins are also available at http://agency.governmentjobs.com/lacity/default.cfm for Open Competitive Examinations. 

NOTE:

Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.

APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2016.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, only a limited number of qualified applicants will be invited to participate in the interview in the following order: 1) Applicants currently employed by the City of Los Angeles who meet the minimum requirements, or are on a reserve list; 2) Remaining applicants who meet the minimum requirements in sufficient numbers to meet hiring needs in the order that applications were received. Applications submitted during the filing period will be kept on file for two years from January 29, 2016 in the event that additional applicants need to be tested to meet hiring needs.

SELECTION PROCESS

Examination Weight:  Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100%
 
The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of technical and personal qualifications by interview.  In the interview, emphasis will be placed on the knowledge of: procedures and techniques used for taking and developing X-Ray films; performing phlebotomy accurately; performing laboratory tests with accurate and reliable results; operating X-ray machines and developing equipment efficiently; hazards and safety practices with regard to radiology and phlebotomy; recognizing the need for major repairs to laboratory equipment; Department of Transportation (DOT), Breath Alcohol Technician (BAT) and urine drug collection procedures; performing BAT procedures and urine drug collections according to DOT regulations; communicating effectively with public and other staff members; and other necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities. 

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date, time, and location of the interview, which will be held in Los Angeles.  It is anticipated that interviews will begin during the period of MARCH 28, 2016 to APRIL 8, 2016.

NOTES:

1. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request, will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.  To request a disability accommodation, please complete the Disability Accommodation Form within 14 calendar days of the submittal of the City application.  The Disability Accommodation Form can be obtained at http://per.lacity.org/exams/verify_disability.pdf.
2. Applications accepted are subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met.  Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
3. In accordance with Civil Service Rule, Sec. 4.24, review periods may be combined. Candidates in the examination process may file protests as provided in Sec. 4.20, 4.22 and 4.23 as applicable and within the required time frame; however, the Personnel Department may respond to and resolve protests prior to the establishment of the eligible list.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of the candidates' City application by Personnel Department staff to ensure that the minimum qualifications have been met.

Notice:  

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefit coverage (including health and dental coverage as well as life insurance) will commence approximately six weeks after your original regular appointment.  Not all positions in the City receive benefit coverage; you should inquire regarding the availability of employee benefits prior to accepting a position.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN ONLY
ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, creed, color, ancestry, medical condition (cancer), or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.


Class Code 2358 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 01-29-16 


AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


